A French prosecutor says he is not aware of any video footage from on board the plane. German daily Bild and Paris Match claim to have found a cell phone video of the crash. A French Gendarmerie spokesman calls the reports ``completely wrong'' and ``unwarranted''
The Palestinian Authority becomes the 123rd member of the International Criminal Court. The formal accession was marked with a ceremony at The Hague, in the Netherlands. The move gives the court jurisdiction over alleged crimes in Palestinian territories. Israel and the United States opposed the Palestinians' efforts to join the body.
At least 607 people were executed around the world in 2014, compared to 778 in 2013. At least 2,466 people globally are confirmed to have been handed the sentence last year. The U.S. remains one of the worst offenders for imposing capital punishment.
In Pakistan, the government lifted a six-year moratorium on the execution of civilians. Iran and Iraq executed people for ``terrorism,'' and other countries expanded the scope of capital crimes. A sharp spike in death sentences recorded in 2014 -- up more than 500 on previous year.
Anne Frank died of typhus in a Nazi concentration camp at the age of 15. Researchers re-examined archives of the Red Cross, the International Training Service and the Bergen-Belsen Memorial. They concluded that Anne and Margot probably did not survive to March 1945.
The student is no longer on campus and will face student conduct review. Officials are still trying to determine if other people were involved. The incident is one of several recent racist events to affect college students. Last month a fraternity at the University of Oklahoma had its charter removed.
The Rev. Robert H. Schuller was diagnosed with esophageal cancer in August 2013. He was also the founder of the television ministry ``Hour of Power'' His confident, breezy version of Christianity drew hordes of seekers and lapsed Christians. He preached not to convert or condemn people, but to encourage them.
Theia, a one-year-old bully breed mix, was hit by a car and buried in a field. She managed to stagger to a nearby farm, dirt-covered and emaciated. She suffered a dislocated jaw, leg injuries and a caved-in sinus cavity.
Mohammad Javad Zarif is the Iranian foreign minister. He has been John Kerry's opposite number in securing a breakthrough in nuclear talks. He received a hero's welcome as he arrived in Iran on a sunny Friday morning. But there are some facts that are less well-known.
Bob Barker returned to ``The Price Is Right'' for the first time in eight years. He hosted the show for 35 years before stepping down in 2007. The 91-year-old didn't seem to miss a beat on the April 1 edition of the game show.
Trey Moses asked Ellie Meredith to be his prom date. He made the prom-posal in the gym during Ellie's P.E. class. ``She's great.. she listens and she's easy to talk to,'' Trey says. Photos of the couple have gone viral.
Michele Bachmann compares President Obama to the co-pilot of the doomed Germanwings flight. Bachmann : ``With his Iran deal, Barack Obama is for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the German Wings flight''
California is a breadbasket to the nation, growing more than a third of its vegetables and nearly two-thirds of its fruits and nuts. A strong dollar allows producers to import crops that may be withering under the absence of West Coast rain or other misfortunes.
Walmart is emerging as a bellwether for shifting public opinion on hot-button political issues. Some prominent Republicans are urging the party to take notice. The backlash over the religious freedom measures in Indiana and Arkansas this week is shining a bright light on the broader business community.
One of the five had a heart-related issue on Saturday and has been discharged. The others have already gone home. They were exposed to Ebola in Sierra Leone in March, but none developed the deadly virus. They are clinicians for Partners in Health, a Boston-based aid group.
Coroner's preliminary assessment is there was no foul play involved in the death. Andrew Getty, 47, had ``several health issues,'' police say. He was found on his side near a bathroom in his home, KTLA reports. The Gettys are estimated to be worth about $ 5 billion.
Mike Pence signed a religious freedom law that opens the door to discrimination against gays and lesbians. Julian Zelizer : Why would Pence ignore the pleas of Indiana's Chamber of Commerce and the Republican mayor of his state capital and sign such a bill ? He says Pence has scored a lot of points this week among ultraconservatives.
Maysak gained super typhoon status just a few days ago. It has since lost steam and is now classified as a tropical storm. It boasts steady winds of more than 70 mph and gusts up to 90 mph. It's expected to make landfall Sunday morning.
Louis Jordan, 37, left Conway, South Carolina, to fish in the ocean. A storm capsized his boat and broke his mast, so he couldn't fix it right away. The boat capsized two more times before he was rescued, according to Jordan. Jordan came ashore Thursday evening.
Paul Walker died in a car crash in November 2013. The film ``Furious 7'' is out Friday. There have been multiple tributes to Walker leading up to the release. ``You'll feel it when you see it,'' says co-star Vin Diesel at premiere.
The U.S. and its negotiating partners reached a very strong framework agreement with Iran. Peter Bergen : The debate that has already begun will likely result in more heat than light. He says there are dubious assumptions and doubtful assertions about the deal. Bergen says the agreement will be judged on its merits, not on questionable assertions.
Mötley Crüe's Vince Neil reminded us of the dangers of tackling ``The Star-Spangled Banner'' Neil butchered the song before the Las Vegas Outlaws Arena Football League game. The late Whitney Houston set the modern standard for the national anthem.
Yahya Rashid, a UK national from northwest London, was detained at Luton airport on Tuesday. He's been charged with engaging in conduct in preparation of acts of terrorism, police say. Rashid is due to appear in Westminster Magistrates' Court on Wednesday.
The total lunar eclipse started at 3:16 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time. People west of the Mississippi River will have the best view. Parts of South America, India, China and Russia also will be able to see the eclipse. The total eclipse will only last four minutes and 43 seconds.
``You can't beat me over the head with something they choose to be,'' owner says. ``Who's going to Walkerton with me to burn down Memories Pizza ?'' a Twitter user asks. Supporters rally to a GoFundMe page in support of Memories Pizza. The pizzeria's owners say they'd refuse to cater a same-sex couple's wedding.
It's hard to swallow the idea of a single person being stranded at sea for days, weeks, if not months. Miracles do happen, though, and not just in Hollywood. In order to survive, they can't bank on technology or the proximity of a nearby city.
Women have been barred from attending most sports events involving men since 1979. A top Iranian sports official says the ban will be lifted for some events. It isn't clear exactly which games women will be able to attend. The Iranian government has come under pressure from international sports officials.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu criticized the deal six world powers struck to thwart Iran's nuclear ambitions. ``I think there's a third alternative, and that is standing firm, ratcheting up the pressure until you get a better deal,'' he said. His comments come as Democrats and Republicans spar over the framework.
A former heavyweight champ's gaudy, abandoned mansion. The tallest and fastest ``giga-coaster'' in the world. A professor of physics asks 100 people to create a composite with facial features they thought were beautiful. A dramatic interview with a famed spiritual leader.
Easter is a cornerstone event in the Christian faith, but it's surrounded by interesting quirks. It celebrates the completion of Christ's mission of salvation in the Crucifixion and Resurrection. Unlike Christmas, it doesn't fall on the same day every year but shifts around in spring.
Police in Malegaon, in the western state of Maharashtra, are requiring identity cards for an unusual group of residents : Cattle. Following a recent state-wide ban on the sale and consumption of beef, authorities in the city have asked residents to take a `mugshot' of their cattle and submit it to the police.
Keonna Thomas, 30, is charged with trying to travel overseas to fight for ISIS. She's one of three women arrested this week on terror charges. Two New York women were also taken into custody. In the past 18 months, the Justice Department has prosecuted more than 30 cases.
Online activity has emerged as the alternative to traditional mainstream media in Asia. Lack of access to traditional print and broadcast media is driving force leading disaffected voices to post online. Jailing journalists is one thing, but watching them being killed and doing little or nothing is another.
Robert Lewis Burns Jr. was the original drummer in Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd. Burns, 64, died after his car hit a mailbox and a tree in Cartersville, Georgia. No other cars were involved in the crash, spokesman says.
Avril Lavigne says she was bedridden for five months after contracting Lyme disease. ``It felt like having all your life sucked out of you,'' she tells People magazine. The singer is releasing a new single to support the 2015 Special Olympics. ``I really just want to enjoy life from here on out,'' she says.
Kevone Charleston, 36, is suspected of 32 commercial robberies dating to November 2013. FBI agents and task force officers were following him as he pulled into a CVS pharmacy. When agents confronted him, Charleston ran, got in his car and traveled about 75 yards.
The NCAA says it has no legal responsibility ``to ensure the academic integrity of the courses offered to student-athletes at its member institutions'' ``It's nonsense. It's double talk,'' says Gerald Gurney, a former athletic-academic director who is now president of The Drake Group for academic integrity in collegiate sport.
The Large Hadron Collider -LRB- LHC -RRB- is the largest particle accelerator in the world. The purpose of the project is to recreate the conditions that existed moments after the ``Big Bang'' The LHC generates up to 600 million particles per second, with a beam circulating for 10 hours.
More than 50 people die in the port city of Aden alone, Agence France-Press reports. The Red Cross calls for a humanitarian ceasefire to let aid in. ``We need to save the lives that can be saved,'' an ICRC official says. The U.N. Security Council discusses the humanitarian situation at Russia's behest.
The U.S. Religious Freedom Restoration Act was passed in 1993. So far, 20 states have some version of the religious liberty law. The law was designed partly to protect the use of peyote, legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin says. A tea used by a Brazilian faith is like wine used by Catholics.
The terrorist group Al-Shabaab has claimed an attack on Garissa University College in eastern Kenya. The attack is another step in the ongoing escalation of the terrorist group's activities. Somalia-based Al - Shabaab is predominantly driven by the same radical interpretation of the Koran.
Cassandra C. is in remission after nearly six months of forced chemo treatments. The 17-year-old started chemotherapy in November but ran away after two days. A judge ordered the young woman to be under the custody of the Connecticut Department of Children and Families.
``Uptown Funk !,'' featuring Bruno Mars, is the longest-leading Billboard Hot 100 of the 2010s. It's also just the 10th single in the Hot 100's entire history to spend at least 13 weeks at No. 1. ``Funk'' still sports strong leads in all main Hot 100 metrics.
Thai Airways subsidiary unveils colorful new livery for ``Adventure Time'' Airbus A320 features Jake, Finn and the beloved Princess Bubblegum. The inaugural flight takes place on April 4, heading from Bangkok to Phuket. Thai Smile is a subsidiary of Thailand flag carrier Thai Airways.
The temperature was recorded at Argentina's Esperanza Base on the northern tip of the Antarctica Peninsula. The World Meteorological Organization is in the process of setting up an international ad-hoc committee. Researchers watch weather changes in the Antarctic region and elsewhere for evidence that the Earth is getting warmer.
Kim Ki-Jong is also charged with assaulting a foreign envoy and business obstruction. U.S. Ambassador Mark Lippert was stabbed in the face and jaw in Seoul last month. Police say Kim stabbed him because he opposed joint South Korean-U.S.-North Korean military drills.
President Barack Obama tied himself to the mast of a nuclear deal with Iran. Peter Bergen : Reaching a good, solid agreement with Iran is a worthy, desirable goal. But the process has unfolded under the destructive influence of political considerations, Bergen says. He says Obama has a huge political stake in these negotiations.
Deion Sanders calls out his son on Twitter. Deion Sanders Jr. is a wide receiver at Southern Methodist University. The elder Sanders reminded his son he has a trust fund, a condo and his own clothing line. Sanders' son retweeted his father's comments.
Listeria monocytogenes was recently found in a cup of ice cream recovered from the hospital. The cup contaminated with the bacteria was produced at the Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, plant. The company is shutting down the facility ``out of an abundance of caution''
Former banker Rurik Jutting, 29, charged with two counts of murder in Hong Kong. Court hearing to determine if there is enough evidence to proceed to trial adjourned until May. Police found the bodies of two women at J Residence in Wan Chai.
``Furious 7'' is getting the widest release in Universal's history. Domestically, it will be playing in 4,003 theaters by Good Friday. Internationally, it has booked more than 10,500 screens in 63 territories. The movie enjoys massive awareness and interest.
Chelsea Manning says she will be using a voice phone to dictate her tweets. She is not allowed Internet access in prison. Manning is serving a 35-year prison sentence for leaking thousands of classified documents. The former Army intelligence analyst was convicted of stealing and disseminating documents.
Ruben Navarrette : Rolling Stone article about alleged gang rape at UVA may be defamatory. He says there are strict rules about who can be a plaintiff in a defamation action like this. A plaintiff must show that the statements were ``of or concerning'' the plaintiff, he says.
Defense Minister Gen Nakatani told the Diet, Japan's parliament, that his jets had, to date, never come across any UFOs from outer space. Inoki had asked if aircraft were ever scrambled to meet extraterrestrial threats, and if research was being done into alien visitors.
The FBI has confirmed that one of its most wanted terrorists, Marwan, was killed in the Philippines. Marwan was believed to be a member of southeast Asian terror group Jemaah Islamiyah's central command. The FBI had been offering a $ 5 million reward for information leading to Marwan's capture.
Shibuya ward in Tokyo passes ordinance to recognize same-sex unions. Same-sex couples will be able to hold visitation rights in hospitals and co-sign tenancy agreements. The certificates will not be issued until later in the summer and are not legally binding. A recent poll found that a slight majority oppose gay marriage.
David Lynch has confirmed he will no longer direct the revival of ``Twin Peaks'' He said he felt the network was not offering enough money to produce the show ``the way it needed to be done'' Showtime Network said they were ``saddened'' by Lynch's decision.
A hot mic picked up Kentucky guard Andrew Harrison saying of Frank Kaminsky, ``F**k that -LRB- N-word -RRB-. '' Harrison, who is is black, said his words were ``in jest,'' and that he meant no disrespect to Kaminsky. Kaminsky said Sunday that he was ``over it''
Six people hurt after explosion at chemical plant in China's southeastern Fujian province. Plant produces paraxylene -LRB- PX -RRB-, a reportedly carcinogenic chemical used in the production of polyester films and fabrics. More than 600 firefighters were sent to battle the blaze and the fire is now under control.
The EPA says there was a presence of methyl bromide in the unit where the family was staying. The use of the pesticide is restricted in the U.S. because of its acute toxicity. The EPA is working with local government agencies to investigate whether any laws were violated.
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kentucky, announced he's running for president. He's trying to sell himself as the GOP's minority outreach candidate, says Donna Brazile. Brazile : Paul's record makes it very clear that his views are outdated, outside of mainstream.
U.S. Department of Justice has named a new defendant in the war on drugs. David Perry : Can companies even be charged with crimes ? Perry : Yes, a corporation can indeed be prosecuted like a person. He says FedEx argues that it is indeed a common carrier, performing normal duties.
``Mad Men'' ends its eight-year run Sunday. The show has become part of the national fabric, if never a huge ratings hit. The last season -- technically the first half of season 7 -- ended with the moon landing. The new season will pick up soon afterward.
Chris Rock tweets photos of three traffic stops in seven weeks. ``Stopped by the cops again wish me luck,'' he posted early Tuesday. Many African-Americans have long bemoaned the phenomenon of being pulled over. Blacks are about 30 % more likely to be pulled over by police than whites.
Mark Wahlberg will star in a film about the Boston Marathon bombing and the manhunt that followed. The film, to be titled ``Patriots' Day,'' is being produced by CBS Films. It is the second film related to the Boston bombing to be announced.
Manuela Arbelaez accidentally revealed the correct answer to a guessing game. Host Drew Carey couldn't stop laughing. It's been a busy week for ``The Price Is Right'' Former host Bob Barker, 91, showed up to run his old show on Wednesday.
Kenyans use social media to share the victims' stories, hopes and dreams. The hashtag # 147notjustanumber refers to the number of people killed at Garissa University College. Kenyan churches mourned the dead during Easter services Sunday as armed guards protected the congregations.
Investigators are not expected to return to the crash site, a French police official says. The plane crashed March 24 in rugged terrain of the Alps about 6 miles from Seyne-les-Alpes. Authorities say the flight's co-pilot locked the captain out of the cockpit.
Carlos Colina, 32, is arraigned on charges of assault and battery causing serious bodily injury. Police were notified Saturday about a suspicious item along a walkway in Cambridge. Officers opened a duffel bag and found human remains. After that discovery, police say, a surveillance video led them to an apartment building.
Etihad Airways lost 2-year-old cat Felix on a flight from Abu Dhabi to New York. The cat's plastic carrier was badly damaged at some point during the flight, owner says. Etihad Airways is investigating the incident and is working with ground handlers.
``Arrested Development'' executive producer Brian Grazer said the show will return for a fifth season of 17 episodes. The fourth season was streamed exclusively on Netflix in 2013. It was not yet known if the full cast, including Jason Bateman, Michael Cera and Will Arnett, will return.
Frida Ghitis : Easter is unique on the Christian calendar, a major point in the cycle of the religious year. She says Easter Triduum refers to the three days of Easter that begin with Good Friday, proceed through Holy Saturday, and conclude with Easter Sunday.
In the New Testament, money gets 37 mentions, while ``gold'' gets 38 citations. ``Purse'' and ``denarii'' -- the Roman currency -- get half a dozen mentions each. ``I imagine the ministry functioned at a subsistence level,'' a professor says.
Former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez and Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev are on trial. In Louisville, Kentucky, Sen. Rand Paul made the not-so-surprising announcement that he will run for president. In Chicago, voters will head to the polls in a runoff between Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesus ``Chuy'' Garcia.
Ted Cruz is the only official 2016 presidential candidate in Iowa. He's counting on the state's evangelical base to propel him forward in a crowded field. Cruz's first television ads are appearing this weekend during programs on Fox News and NBC. The past two winners of Iowa's caucuses won with support from the Christian right.
``Vampire Diaries'' star Nina Dobrev is leaving the show at the end of this season. Many fans are upset that the show will go on to a seventh season after Dobrev's departure. ``If you think you know what's coming, you don't,'' Dobrev says.
Zhou Yongkang is the highest-ranking Chinese Communist Party official ever to face corruption charges. He was one of nine men who effectively ruled the country of more than 1.3 billion people. Zhou controlled police forces, spy agencies, court systems and prosecution offices.
Education minister Smriti Irani was visiting a FabIndia outlet in the tourist resort state of Goa. She discovered a surveillance camera pointed at the changing room. Four employees of the store have been arrested, but its manager is still at large. The arrested staff have been charged with voyeurism and breach of privacy.
The group included four children -- the oldest being 10 or 11, a Turkish official says. The nine were arrested at the Turkey-Syria border, the Turkish military says. It didn't say why the group allegedly was trying to get into Syria, which is torn by a war.
Kayahan was diagnosed with cancer in 1990, the year he competed in the Eurovision Song Contest. He died Friday in a hospital in Istanbul, five days after his 66th birthday. ``We are in grief over losing Kayahan,'' Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu tweets.
A nuclear submarine being repaired at a Russian shipyard has caught on fire. ``The rubber insulation between the submarine's light and pressure hull is on fire,'' Tass reports. The fire began on a sub in the Zvyozdochka shipyard in northwestern Russia.
About 300 people were evacuated from the Abkatun Permanente platform. 45 workers were injured, two of them in serious condition. The fire began in the platform's dehydration and pumping area, Pemex says. The company denies rumors that the platform had collapsed.
TV5Monde is gradually regaining control of its channels and social media outlets. The outage began around 8:45 p.m. Paris time Wednesday. On a mobile site, which was still active, the network said it was ``hacked by an Islamist group''
A group of armed assailants stormed into the attorney general's office in Balkh province, northern Afghanistan. Two police officers and a security guard were among the dead. Most staff members and civilians have been rescued, but an exchange of fire between security forces and assailants is ongoing.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is found guilty of all 30 counts he faced in the Boston Marathon bombing trial. The trial will next move into a penalty phase, where the jury will hear testimony and arguments from both sides. The start date of the penalty phase has not yet been set.
The fire began shortly before 7 a.m. at the General Electric Appliance Park in Louisville. Video showed both smoke and bright orange flames. There were no reports of anyone injured or trapped. The park is large, such that 34 football fields could fit in one of its warehouses.
A U.S. official says Washington is ``not putting a timeframe on'' a possible invasion. Mosul has long been the big prize in the Iraqi government's fight to defeat ISIS. It has also long been a source of embarrassment, considering how it fell last June.
Most of the penalty amounts to forced spending on improving pipeline safety. Of the $ 1.6 billion, $ 850 million will go to ``gas transmission pipeline safety infrastructure improvements'' The company's chief executive officer says PG&E is working to become the safest energy company.
``I saw the top of the funnel cloud, and it was absolutely massive,'' a witness says. One person dies in Fairdale, Illinois, as a twister shreds homes and trees. Hail stones the size of tennis balls plummet down on Ashton, Illinois. The National Weather Service warns of a ``particularly dangerous situation''
A witness says he didn't see Walter Scott grab Officer Michael Slager's Taser. Slager has been fired and charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Scott. A bystander's cell phone video shows the five-year police veteran shooting at Scott.
Lucknow police have bought four drones and are in the process of purchasing one more. The miniature aircraft will be fitted with a camera and pepper spray ; each drone costs between $ 9,560 and $ 19,300. Views on the new measure are mixed, with some concerned about the suppression of freedom of speech.
A female employee accused Xavier Morales, a supervisor within the agency, of assault after he made sexual advances at her. Morales was placed on administrative leave and his security clearance was suspended. This is just the latest chapter for an organization embroiled in scandal over the past several months.
Dysart was nominated for the Emmy for outstanding supporting actor in a drama series for four straight years. The acclaimed ``L.A. Law'' aired for eight seasons from 1986 to 1994. Dysart's range of authority-figure parts ran right to the top.
Vijay Chokalingam applied to medical school claiming to be African-American. Frida Ghitis : It's sad about what's so farce about his racial farce. She says affirmative action is merely a form of ``systematic racism'' Ghitis says doctors should follow in their father's footsteps.
Don McLean's ``American Pie'' sold by Christie's for $ 1.2 million. Bob Greene : The song is a hybrid of modern poetry and folk ballad, beer-hall chant and high-art rock. He says McLean was a paperboy when Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P. ``The Big Bopper'' died. Greene : McLean has guaranteed that the memory of those great musicians lives forever.
Anthony Ray Hinton was convicted of killing two Birmingham-area fast-food restaurant managers. A new trial was ordered in 2014 after firearms experts testified 12 years earlier. The state then declined to re-prosecute the case. ``I shouldn't have -LRB- sat -RRB- on death row for 30 years,'' he says.
April 8 was also ``Rex Manning Day'' Twitter paid homage to the 1995 film ``Empire Records'' The Titanic sank on April 15, 1912. ``Mean Girls Day'' is officially October 3, given that's when Aaron Samuels asks Cady what it is.
Mary Kay Letourneau Fualaau had an affair with her 13-year-old student in 1996. She served more than seven years in prison on charges related to their relationship. The couple wed soon after she was released and are now the parents of two teen girls.
Twisted Sister says its 2016 tour will be its last. Next year marks the band's 40th anniversary. ``It's official : Farewell,'' singer Dee Snider posted on Facebook. The band will play with a new drummer, Mike Portnoy of Adrenaline Mob.
``Grace of Monaco'' will premiere on Lifetime on Memorial Day, May 25. The Weinstein Co. decided to sell it directly to Lifetime rather than book it into U.S. theaters. The film was directed by Olivier Dahan and focuses on a period in the early'60s.
Don McLean's ``American Pie'' manuscript sells for $ 1.2 million. It's the 3rd highest auction price for an American literary manuscript, Christie's says. The song has become one of the most dissected and argued-about songs in pop music.
Kanye West and paparazzi photographer Daniel Ramos have settled a civil suit. Ramos filed the suit after West attacked him and tried to wrestle his camera from him. West pleaded no contest last year to a misdemeanor count of battery over the scuffle. The case had been set for trial next week.
Travolta is one of the Church of Scientology's most high-profile members. He is premiering his new film, ``The Forger,'' in Clearwater, Florida. The HBO documentary ``Going Clear : Scientology and the Prison of Belief'' is critical of the organization.
B.B. King's dehydration was caused by his Type II diabetes, his daughter says. ``I'm feeling much better and am leaving the hospital today,'' King says in a statement. No more information on King's condition or where he was hospitalized was immediately available.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is found guilty on all 30 counts he faced in the Boston Marathon bombings. ``Justice has been served,'' says Richard Donohue, who was wounded in a shootout with the Tsarnaevs. ``I may be standing on one fake leg, but I'm standing here, stronger than ever,'' survivor says.
Bi Fujian, who works for state-run CCTV, was filmed at a dinner party singing a revolutionary song. He started going off script when he started cursing the late Chairman Mao Zedong. Bi later apologized, saying : ``My personal speech has led to grave social consequences''
``Nighttime tornadoes are the most deadly,'' CNN severe weather expert Chad Myers says. A tornado may have touched down in Potosi, Missouri, CNN affiliate KMOV reports. More storms are expected in the Midwest, Mississippi River Valley and Tennessee River Valley. The National Weather Service says the storms could last into Thursday.
Katie, a giraffe at the Dallas Zoo, gave birth to a not-so-little baby early Friday evening. There was no immediate word on the newborn's gender or condition. The baby joins a sister, 4-year-old calf Jamie, at the zoo.
The fifth season of ``Game of Thrones'' premieres Sunday. It's the most high-profile premiere yet, airing simultaneously in 170 countries for the first time. Executive producer David Benioff : ``We are starting to build to a crescendo, which means the battles have to get bigger''
Heads of state from 35 countries in the Western Hemisphere have met every three years since 1994. The VII Summit of the Americas was supposed to be all about the symbolic handshake. But insert Venezuela into the mix and Panama City, Panama, quickly turns into a ``triangle of tension''
President Obama is giving up enormous leverage in his nuclear deal with Iran, says Peter Bergen. Bergen : The only reason Iran came to the negotiating table was because of U.S. sanctions. For Khamenei, the ``framework'' announced last week looks like a win-win, he says.
Both Martin O'Malley and Jim Webb are toying with a 2016 presidential bid. But the similarities end there, as was evident at the Polk County Democrats Awards Dinner in Des Moines, Iowa, on Friday night. The two Democrats find themselves in the same position, with Hillary Clinton leading the field.
``The change will come,'' Scott's brother says. Hundreds of mourners gather at a church in Summerville, South Carolina. A witness says she saw the officer and Scott scuffling before the shooting. Officer Michael Slager is charged with murder in the death.
The suspect's vehicle was spotted outside the U.S. Census Bureau in Suitland, Maryland. A guard apparently approached the vehicle and saw two people arguing. That guard was then shot at least once in the upper body, a fire spokesman said. The police chief said the suspect then fled the scene.
An Iranian military observation aircraft flew within 50 yards of an armed U.S. Navy helicopter over the Persian Gulf this month. The incident sparked concern that top Iranian commanders might not be in full control of local forces. ``We think this might have been locally ordered,'' an official said.
Liana Barrientos has been married 10 times, sometimes within two weeks of each other. Prosecutors say the marriages were part of an immigration scam. On Friday, she pleaded not guilty at State Supreme Court in the Bronx. If convicted, she faces up to four years in prison.
#UporDown ? That's the trending question on social media, thanks to a photo of a cat coming down some stairs. The picture was apparently uploaded on Imgur a few days ago and has caught fire. Some people are noting the apparent motion of the cat.
Frida Ghitis : Pope Francis has reawakened my faith. She says it's not because he opened the floodgates to allow sin in the eyes of the church. It's his tone. Ghitis says he defies tradition and washes the feet of the disabled, women and those of other faiths.
Mullah Mohammed Omar is credited with founding the Taliban in the early 1990s. The Taliban's ``Cultural Commission'' released the 11-page document in several different translations. Observers say the biography is aimed at dispelling rumors of Omar's demise. ``The Taliban has a huge leadership problem at a critical political moment,'' analyst says.
Amnesty International report examines persecution of women's rights activists in Afghanistan. Rights group : Perpetrators almost always walk free, threats reported by women are ignored. In 2013, the number of women killed in the country had increased by 20 % from the previous year, Amnesty says.
Nelly is charged with felony possession of drugs, simple possession of marijuana. The rapper from St. Louis shot to fame 15 years ago with the track ``Country Grammar'' A state trooper stopped the bus because it wasn't displaying U.S. Department of Transportation stickers.
The first six ``Star Wars'' movies will be available on digital HD on Friday. The collection will include many special features, some of which give fans a glimpse behind the scenes. One focus of the features will be the sound effects of the movies, including that of the insect-like Geonosians.
Hillary Clinton is finally announcing her candidacy for the 2016 presidential election. Julian Zelizer : For Democrats, there is ample reason to be excited about Clinton's run. He says if she puts together an effective campaign, she could be unbeatable in the Democratic primaries as well as in the general election.
Former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley says Hillary Clinton is not ``inevitable'' Clinton was considered inevitable to win the nomination in 2008 but ended up losing to Barack Obama. Clinton is planning to launch her presidential candidacy on Sunday through a video message on social media.
Ramalinga Raju, the former chairman of Satyam Computers Services, was also fined $ 804,000. In 2009, Raju admitted inflating profits with fictitious assets and nonexistent cash. The case has been compared to the 2001 Enron Corp. scandal.
Sweden is said to be the most generous nation on Earth for parental leave. Fathers have to share that leave with mothers. Photographer Johan Bavman is looking for a total of 60 fathers to photograph, to culminate in an exhibition and a book. Only 12 % of Swedish couples equally share the 480 days.
Craig Hicks, 46, is charged in the deaths of three Muslim college students in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Hicks, who was the victims' neighbor, turned himself in to police the night of the killings. On what is believed to be Hicks' Facebook page, numerous posts rail against religion.
HBO has released a teaser video for season 2 of ``True Detective'' Colin Farrell, Vince Vaughn, Rachel McAdams and Taylor Kitsch star in the new season. It premieres June 21. The first season starred Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson.
More than 200 students signed a petition asking the school not to show the movie. Some students believed the movie's depiction of the Iraq War reflected negatively on the Middle East. Bradley Cooper was nominated for an Oscar for his portrayal of Chris Kyle. Kyle was fatally shot at a Texas shooting range in 2013.
Lauren Hill was diagnosed with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma in 2013. The rare brain tumor was inoperable, but Hill persisted in playing on her high school team. Hill would go on to help raise $ 1.4 million for pediatric cancer research. Mount St. Joseph University successfully petitioned the NCAA to move up its first game.
Carlos Colina, 32, will be arraigned the morning of April 14 for murder. Police were notified Saturday about a suspicious item along a walkway in Cambridge. Officers opened a duffel bag and found human remains. Surveillance video led them to an apartment building, where more body parts were discovered.
Pacers' Chris Copeland is in stable condition at a New York hospital, the team says. Two Atlanta Hawks are among those arrested, police and CNN affiliates say. The Hawks were not involved in the incident, but were arrested on obstruction and other charges. Police initially said the incident occurred at 1OAK, a club in New York's Chelsea neighborhood.
``Lost River'' is Ryan Gosling's first feature as director. The film is set in Detroit, a city on the brink of annihilation. Gosling says the city was at the heart of the project. ``We wanted to share the experience these people were having''
Elizabeth Sedway was on a flight to Hawaii to celebrate her 14th wedding anniversary. She says an Alaska Airlines employee asked her how she was doing, and she said she felt weak. That led to her being removed from the plane, she says in a Facebook video. Alaska Airlines apologizes, says it had ``the customer's well-being in mind''
Aaron Hernandez is on trial for the shooting death of semi-pro player Odin Lloyd. The former NFL star has pleaded not guilty in Lloyd's death in June 2013. Hernandez's fiancee says she didn't know what was in a box he told her to dispose of.
Nearly 10 out of every 100,000 women are killed in Guatemala. The country ranks third in the killings of women worldwide. Women are particularly vulnerable because of a deep-rooted gender bias and culture of misogyny. The political will to address violence against women is slow to materialize.
Robert Durst, 71, is charged with unlawful possession of a firearm. He faces a maximum of 10 years in prison if found guilty of that charge. Durst is accused of killing his friend Susan Berman at her home in California in 2000. He also faces state weapons and drugs charges in New Orleans.
Department of Justice will begin to negotiate in earnest with the city to restructure the police department. Julian Zelizer : After a half year of unrest, change is beginning to come to Ferguson. The question is, what kind of change ? He says the DOJ report offered a devastating insight into a police department that preyed on its own citizens.
Steve Esmond, his teenage sons and the teens' mother fell ill more than two weeks ago. The EPA says the presence of a pesticide at the rented villa may have caused the illnesses. The use of the pesticide is restricted in the United States because of its acute toxicity.
Oliver Minatel, 22, says he was sleeping when he felt something around his neck. ``With a rope, something that he has, he just jumped on me. That's what happened,'' Minatel says. The man was not restrained for the rest of the trip.
The University of Virginia is under investigation over how it handles sexual assault on campus. The school has never expelled a single student for sexual assault -- even when the student admitted to it. Virginia attorney general asked the law firm of O'Melveny & Myers to take a look.
Saturday at the Masters dubbed `Moving Day' It's the day after the fat has been cut and the big dogs make their move. Rory McIlroy went out in 32 and briefly raised the crowd's hopes. But he dropped two shots late on in the round to finish six under par.
The entire ``Star Wars'' saga will be released on digital HD this week. ``Dukes of Hazzard'' fans mourned the loss of actor James Best. Michelle Obama brought the White House down with the ``So You Think You Can Dance'' all-stars.
7-Eleven is hosting the first Bring-Your-Own-Cup Slurpee Day. Customers at participating stores can fill their ``cup'' of choice for $ 1.49. In-store displays with a 10-inch-diameter hole are required.
4 of almost 2,000 WWI soldiers' writings have been found underneath battlefields near Naours, France. Photographer Jeff Gusky has chronicled the area in a portfolio he calls ``The Hidden World of WWI'' The underground city dates back centuries but was sealed up in the 18th century.
Loretta Lynch is the first African-American woman to be nominated for attorney general. Her confirmation has been delayed longer than any other nominee in recent history. Republicans and Democrats say the delay is part of an ongoing partisan battle. Some of Lynch's supporters have organized to convince North Carolina's two Republican senators to support her.
The Lamborghini's passenger, 36-year-old Gary Terry of Davenport, Florida, died at the scene. Driver Tavon Watson, 24, was hospitalized with minor injuries. The Exotic Driving Experience bills itself as a chance to drive your dream car.
This year is the 20th anniversary of the discovery of a planet around a star like our own sun. David Wheeler : Astronomers estimate there are perhaps 40 billion Earth-like, habitable-zone planets. Wheeler : If planets that develop simple forms of life may be a dime a dozen.
Last weekend's raid in the heart of London's jewelry district feels like it has been taken from a movie like ``Ocean 11'' Such robberies are rare : the gang didn't follow the current criminal trend of manipulating digits in cyber space. In the UK burglaries and robberies are often committed by working-class people.
Pierre Krähenbühl will assess the humanitarian situation in the camp. He will speak with individuals about ways to relieve the suffering of the people there. The Yarmouk refugee camp has been engulfed in fighting since December 2012. There have been widespread reports of malnutrition and shortages of medical care.
Makers used body doubles, computer-generated images and even the actor's brothers. ``Not gon na lie, I shed a few tears at the end of Furious 7,'' one woman said. Co-star Vin Diesel shared the video for the song late Sunday on his Facebook page.
A New York judge issued an opinion authorizing service of divorce papers on a husband completely via Facebook. The idea of service by Facebook seems to offend traditional notions of ensuring notification of a defendant of a case against him. Online service may be a new frontier, but it's not unheard of.
The stars have teamed together for a video backing the show's co-creator. Lynch announced Sunday that he was exiting Showtime's nine-episode revival over a salary dispute. He originally signed on to direct the project but noted that there was ``not enough money offered to do the script''
The project is being called ``Selena the One'' It will be ``walking, talking, singing and dancing digital embodiment'' of her persona. Selena will be the first figure to use the Acrovirt technology, her sister says. Fans can join an Indiegogo campaign to support the launch.
Of the ship's 2,117 passengers, 95 have suffered from vomiting, diarrhea and other symptoms. The illness has also affected five members of the 964-person crew. The CDC has yet to determine what's causing the ailments. The Infinity left San Diego on March 29.
Five young Chinese feminists may face up to five years in prison over their campaign for gender equality. The women were detained on March 6 and March 7 in three Chinese cities -- Beijing, Guangzhou and Hangzhou. The five were initially held on suspicion of ``picking quarrels and provoking trouble''
Daniel Boykin, 33, entered the woman's home multiple times, police say. Police found more than 90 videos and 1,500 photos of the victim on his phone and computer. The incident happened in a TSA-only restroom, and there was no evidence public restrooms were targeted.
The debris is suspected to be from the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in 2011. The boat fragment was found this week and towed to Newport, Oregon, where it is moored at a marina. Inside were found specimens of a variety of yellowtail jack fish.
Cuba is attending the Summit of the Americas in Panama. The U.S. has not blocked Cuba's attempt to join for the first time since 1962. The forum could provide the opportunity to push forward an agreement to re-establish formal relations and re-open embassies.
ISIS says it launched an assault on the Baiji oil refinery late Saturday. Iraqi government security officials deny that claim and insist Iraqi forces remain in full control. The refinery is just 40 kilometers from the northern Iraqi city of Tikrit, which Iraqi forces wrested from ISIS.
Ryan Calhoun and Delonte Martistee, students at Troy University, are charged with sexual battery. Police found video of what appeared to be a Panama City gang rape during an unrelated shooting. The Bay County Sheriff's Office Criminal Investigations Division has identified the victim in the video.
The pilot reported hearing unusual banging from the cargo hold. ``There could be a person in there so we're going to come back around,'' he told air traffic control. The banging came from a person and he turned out to be a ramp agent. He told authorities he had fallen asleep.
Phillip Hyman grew up in the neighborhood where Walter Scott was killed. He found a piece of wood in the trash and painted it black in mourning for Scott's family. The figure has wings because it's going to heaven, Hyman says. Hyman : ``It's a statement of where we are in America''
A U.S. RC-135U was flying over the Baltic Sea when it was intercepted by a Russian SU-27 Flanker. The Pentagon says the Russian pilot's actions were ``unsafe and unprofessional'' A year ago, a Russian jet flew within 100 feet of a RC - 135U.
A quadriplegic with cerebral palsy was left in a Philadelphia park for more than four days. Police say the man's mother left him in the park Monday morning. She then took a bus to Maryland to see her boyfriend, police say. The mother faces a host of charges.
President Barack Obama says he is ``absolutely committed'' to making sure Israel maintains a military advantage over Iran. His comments come amid criticism from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of the deal that the United States and five other world powers struck with Iran. Tehran agreed to halt the country's nuclear ambitions, and in exchange, Western powers would drop sanctions.
``This crime has rightly caused outrage both in Nigeria and across the world,'' Buhari says. The girls were abducted on the night of April 14-15, 2014, in the town of Chibok. Most have never been seen since, except in a photograph in which they sat on the ground.
Nyia Parler can not be extradited until she completes unspecified ``treatment,'' police say. She will be charged with aggravated assault, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person. A quadriplegic man was found Friday ``lying in leaves, covered in a blanket with a Bible and a wheelchair''
Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback signs a law banning a common second-term abortion procedure. The law bans what it describes as ``dismemberment abortion'' Opponents warn it is dangerous and among the most restrictive abortion laws in the country. Both sides appear to be prepared to take their battle over such measures to other states.
Nyia Parler, 41, can not be extradited until she completes unspecified ``treatment,'' police say. She is accused of leaving her quadriplegic son in a Philadelphia park while she went to Maryland. The 21-year-old man was found Friday ``lying in leaves, covered in a blanket with a Bible and a wheelchair'' Parler will be transported to Philadelphia once the treatment is complete.
Chinese-born, American-based Jia Jiang decided to blog about ``100 Days of Rejection'' He quit his comfortable six-figure job to follow his dreams of being an entrepreneur at the age of 30. After his tech start-up was declined investment, he decided to confront his fear of rejection head-on.
30 new confirmed cases of Ebola were reported in the week of April 5. This is the lowest weekly total since May 2014. In Guinea, of the 19 confirmed deaths from April 5, seven were only identified as Ebola post-mortem and there were reports of 21 unsafe burials.
Jill -LRB- Duggar -RRB- Dillard gave birth Monday to a 9-pound, 10-ounce son. The baby was a bit tardy, going past his due date by more than a week. Dillard said she gave herself two due dates and was prepared for the wait.
CNN's Brian Todd and photojournalist Khalil Abdallah were on their way to interview a legal analyst. They happened on a brood of baby ducks causing a stir. A man gave up his umbrella for the cause ``while the mom was going crazy,'' Abdallah says.
Ron Lane, an employee at Wayne Community College, was killed Monday. The suspect, Kenneth Morgan Stancil III, worked with Lane as part of a work-study program. He was let go from the program in early March due to poor attendance, college president says.
Richie Benaud has died at the age of 84, Cricket Australia says. Benaud captained Australia for 28 Tests, never losing a series. He was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1985. Australian PM Tony Abbott says Benaud ``personified'' cricket.
Cape Verde is home to a greater number of musicians per square kilometer than any other country in the world. The island country is seeking to tap-into the spoils of this rich cultural heritage in a bid to help its economy flourish. One early musical success has been the Kriol Jazz Festival.
The migrants were picked up 30 miles off the coast of Libya. In the first three months of 2015, Italy registered more than 10,000 migrants arriving. Most migrants recorded this year come from West Africa as well as Somalia and Syria. At least 480 migrants have died crossing the Mediterranean since the beginning of the year.
``The match between the `Double Falsehood' play and Shakespeare was a landslide,'' researcher says. ``We're certainly not suggesting that Theobald didn't make edits,'' Ryan Boyd says. Shakespeare, who died in 1616, wrote most of his published plays between 1590 and 1612.
Kenya is tracking finances of people suspected of ties to Al-Shabaab. So far, the government has frozen 86 accounts, but that number could go up. The government has tracked supporters of the terror group since 2011, and efforts to freeze assets have gone on.
Irish betting company Paddy Power apologizes for tweet about Newcastle United. The tweet alluded to recent controversial incidents in the U.S. involving police. The company is well-known for its use of publicity stunts. Liverpool beat Newcastle 2-0 in the English Premier League on Monday.
A NASA astrophysicist has named an asteroid after Malala Yousafzai. She was gravely wounded by a Pakistani Taliban gunman for promoting the right of girls' to go to school. The asteroid circles the sun between Mars and Jupiter every five and half years.
Wu Rongrong and four other women's rights activists have been detained in China. They were planning to protest on International Women's Day against sexual harassment. The fate of the five will be revealed by April 13, as their case reaches the legal time limit.
Jodi Arias was sentenced to life in prison for the 2008 murder of her ex-boyfriend Travis Alexander. Arias, 34, was found guilty of first-degree murder in May 2013. The jury that convicted her found the murder was especially cruel, making her eligible for the death penalty.
``The solicitation of prostitution threatens the core mission of the department,'' Holder writes. The directive comes a few weeks after a Justice Department inspector general report. The report cited light punishments and poor handling of sexual misconduct cases at DEA and other agencies. In 2012, a group of agents and officers in the Secret Service were relieved of duty.
Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton will be the barometer by which we assess gender equality. He says a win would mean a woman in the White House, but it's possible that the march will end right there. Zelizer says a loss would be even more difficult.
A bystander recorded video of a police officer killing an apparently unarmed black man. Frida Ghitis : The video raises troubling questions about how often such incidents take place. She says a 1994 law requires the Justice Department to collect data on police killings. Ghitis says Congress has failed to press the Justice Dept. to comply with the law.
Nashville's district attorney banned prosecutors from offering female sterilization in plea deals. John Sutter : Some have claimed this practice ``evokes a dark corner of American history'' He says this isn't quite that. Sterilization statutes have been around for a while as punishment.
Emy Afalava was born in American Samoa, a U.S. territory since 1900. He says he has been subject to American law his whole life and thinks he should be a citizen. He and other American Samoans are seeking to right that wrong in a federal lawsuit.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty on all counts in the Boston Marathon bombing. Frida Ghitis : There could be other more young men just like him. She says to fight extremism, we don't need to reform Islam. We need to show young Muslims that extremism is doing the opposite.
Apple released a new version of its mobile operating system that includes more diversity. The reaction to this new lineup is, as should be expected, a range of cheers and jeers. For many, these images are seen as recognition that their own ethnicity is part of mainstream America.
David Perry : Officer Michael Slager's shooting of Walter Scott defies any reasonable explanation. He says a police body camera might have prevented the entire tragedy. Perry : There is a bias against black men that has infiltrated the criminal justice system. Police body cameras can help break this cycle, he says.
Pentagon map shows coalition forces have taken back 25-30 % of Iraqi territory seized by ISIS. CNN asked Afzal Ashraf, a counterinsurgency specialist, to give us a steer on what this new data tells us about the fight against ISIS.
Iman Hashi, 25, and her sister Siham, 27, were born in Mogadishu but forced to flee after war broke out in 1991. The sisters relocated to Canada as refugees where during their teens they discovered a passion for music. They are now gearing up to unleash their Afro-pop sound to the world.
Yarmouk is a Palestinian refugee camp on the outskirts of Damascus. Since 2012 it has been engulfed in the Syrian conflict. Pro-government factions besiege the area from the outside, cutting off supplies and aid. The inside is held by anti-regime groups, some of which are Islamists.
``A.D. The Bible Continues'' debuts on NBC on Sunday. ``Mad Men'' is coming to an end. ``Louie'' is back for a fifth season. Billy Crystal returns to television in ``The Comedians'' on FX. ``Marvel's Daredevil'' launches on Netflix.
Paul Bettany has been cast as the Vision in ``Avengers : Age of Ultron'' Thursday was the eve of the new Netflix series ``Daredevil'' Director Bryan Singer announced a new character for ``X-Men : Apocalypse'' Ben Hardy will be playing the winged mutant Angel.
Odin Lloyd was 27-years-old and working for a landscaping firm when he was killed. He played football for the Boston Bandits, the oldest semi-pro team in Boston. Aaron Hernandez was convicted of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison.
David Frum : 8 out of 10 American taxpayers get a refund when they file their taxes. He says the average amount is close to $ 3000, which pays for a lot of stuff. Frum says tax filing has gotten rather simple for most people, with free online filing.
Aaron Hernandez is accused of killing two men and wounding another person in 2012. Prosecutors have said Hernandez fatally shot Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. A judge froze his $ 5 million in assets, pending the outcome of the double-murder trial.
Frida Ghitis : Lincoln's two greatest legacies grew organically from his Midwestern roots. She says he knew no defensible border shielded land of corn from the land of cotton. He insisted the Union is older than any of the States ; and in fact, it created them as States, she says. Ghitis says many other Midwesterners embraced slavery and secession.
The Ringling Bros. Center for Elephant Conservation is in Polk City, Florida. Twenty-nine elephants currently live here, and 13 more will join the group by 2018. ``This was a decision that our family had discussed for quite some time,'' says Kenneth Feld, CEO.
Arsenal beat Burnley 1-0 at Turf Moor to keep title hopes alive. Aaron Ramsey scores only goal of the game in first half. Arsenal four points behind Chelsea, who have two games in hand. Aston Villa beat Tottenham to keep good run of form going.
``Orphan Black'' returns for its second season on April 18. Tatiana Maslany has taken on at least six roles on the show so far. ``Turn : Washington's Spies'' returns with a new subtitle and a new time slot. ``Game of Thrones'' returns to HBO for a fifth season.
Amy Schumer's opening video segment was as reliably hilarious and inventive as her Comedy Central show. Tinashe's time to shine was only a shame she got about 30 seconds to command the stage. The Rock shouting into the camera about Dwayne Johnson's movie highlights was unnecessary.
``Daredevil'' premiered its first season on Netflix on Friday. Charlie Cox is perfectly cast as blind attorney Matt Murdock. The show is already a hit with critics, with 94 % positive reviews on Rotten Tomatoes. Does Netflix have a ``House of Cards'' - like hit ?
Alyssa Milano was on a ``romantic getaway'' with her husband. Heathrow Airport workers allegedly confiscated her pumped breast milk. The actress was furious about the incident. A blogger mom experienced a similar issue at the airport in 2011. The airport asks that travelers carry only what they need for the flight.
Cynthia Lennon was married to John Lennon from 1962 to 1968. She was a stabilizing force for the young Beatle, who lost his mother as a teenager. The couple divorced in 1968, by which time John was seeing Yoko Ono. She married three more times after John and wrote two books.
``Amy : The Girl Behind the Name'' is set for UK release on July 3. The trailer conveys Winehouse's ambivalence about fame. Winehouse struggled publicly with drugs and alcohol during a career in which she recorded two albums. She died from alcohol poisoning at the age of 27 on July 23, 2011.
Ray Gricar, 59, went missing on April 15, 2005. His red Mini Cooper was found abandoned near a bridge on the Susquehanna River. His county-issued laptop and hard drive were found -- separately -- on the banks of the river. The prevailing theories have been suicide or walk-away.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was convicted on 30 charges related to the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. The jury will begin deliberating his punishment next week. Many bombing survivors were in the crowd for Wednesday's events. They wore white, blue and yellow pins celebrating ``One Boston Day''
The sentencing phase of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's trial begins April 21, a day after the Boston Marathon. Judge George A. O'Toole tells jurors to avoid anything that could be prejudicial in the trial's sentencing phase. Tsarnaev was convicted on all 30 counts he faced.
Students on the Kikuyu campus stampeded down the halls of the Kimberly dormitory. Hundreds were injured and were taken to hospitals. The confusion and panic came less than two weeks after Al-Shabaab slaughtered 147 people at a college in Garissa, Kenya.
TEPCO has given up trying to recover a robotic probe after it stopped moving inside one of the reactors. The robot, set out to collect data on radiation levels and investigate the spread of debris, stalled after moving about 10 meters. It was the first time the probe had been used.
Tulsa County reserve deputy Robert Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter. Video shows Bates announcing he is going to deploy his Taser. He then shoots Eric Courtney Harris in the back with a handgun. The sheriff's office says a sting operation caught Harris illegally selling a gun.
Tourists and locals line up around the block for several hours just to get their hands on Jenny's cookies -- at $ 9 a tin. Its popularity has spurred bakeries to make and sell knockoffs, and the original store has signs warning against buying `fake' cookies.
The reinforcements come four days after ISIS began attacking northern Iraq's Baiji oil refinery. The facility refines much of the fuel used by Iraqis domestically. The reinforcements include two federal police regiments, an Iraqi military quick reaction force battalion and Hasd Al-Shaabi.
Brett McGurk, the Obama administration's point man in the fight against ISIS, told CNN that the U.S. is in ``uncharted territory'' The comments were some of the administration's strongest to date in describing the challenge the United States and its allies face.
More than 500 Houthi rebels have been killed since March 26, a Saudi official says. A nine-nation coalition has undertaken 1,200 airstrikes since then, the official adds. Yemen has been descending into chaos since Houthis forced President Hadi from power in January.
Amina Ali Qassim and her family fled the Yemeni island of Birim at first light. Twenty-five of them squeezed into one boat setting sail through the Bab al-Mandab Strait. It took them five hours to cross into the north of Djibouti.
A woman left her explosives-laden handbag near a bus filling up with passengers. The bus was heading to the central Nigerian city of Jos, 125 kilometers away. The woman pretended to be going to Jos and lingered around the bus, according to a grocer near the bus station.
John T. Booker Jr. enlisted in the Army last year and was due to ship out to basic training April 7. He was arrested Friday and charged with trying to detonate a car bomb at Fort Riley. A second man, who allegedly knew about the bomb plot but didn't call authorities, was charged.
ISIS took thousands of Yazidis captive. Men faced a choice -- convert to Islam or be shot. But the Islamist militants separated the young women and girls to be sold as sex slaves. ISIS : Enslaving, having sex with `unbelieving' women, girls is OK.
Muhammadu Buhari tells CNN he's not concerned about reconciling the nation after a divisive campaign. He says he'll ``rapidly give attention'' to curbing violence in the northeast part of Nigeria. The new president will be sworn in on May 29.
Hillary Clinton's campaign-in-waiting met on Saturday in its Brooklyn headquarters. A ``values statement'' was distributed that outlined what the campaign will stand for, what their goals are and how they plan to win. Clinton is planning to launch her presidential candidacy on Sunday.
Over the weekend ISIS moved into towns just to the north of Ramadi, which lies 68 miles -LRB- 110 km -RRB- west of Baghdad. ISIS had already blocked off access from the south months ago, and the west was contested territory. Cars are not permitted to cross this bridge across the Euphrates.
A swarm of Asian carp attacked the Washington University of rowing team. No one was injured, but the strong smell of fish lingered in the moments afterward. Watch iReporter Benjamin Rosenbaum's video of the incident in the player above. The incident happened early Friday morning.
The White House insists it doesn't need congressional approval for the Iran nuclear deal. Julian Zelizer : History suggests the President might indeed have the authority to move forward without Congress. He says the fight for congressional approval would be politically bruising and consume a huge amount of energy.
Gwyneth Paltrow is participating in the #FoodBankNYCChallenge. The effort is in response to recent cuts to food stamps. The challenge urges participants to use only $ 29 for all the food a person eats for seven days. The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates how much it costs to buy food.
Gov. Nathan Deal signed a bill that will legalize low-THC cannabis oil for certain ``medication-resistant epilepsies'' The bill is dubbed Haleigh's Hope Act. Haleigh Cox, who has been the face of the bill, had hundreds of seizures a day.
Lady Antebellum singer Hillary Scott's tour bus catches fire on a Texas freeway. Everyone on board was safely evacuated, Scott says. The fire destroyed everything in the bus's back lounge except her Bible, she says. Scott is set to perform at the Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday.
Ansar Beit Al-Maqdis, an ISIS affiliate, claimed responsibility for the attack. The attack came hours after another operation that the group also claimed. The military announced a reshuffle of several senior military positions, state media reported. Egypt's army has been fighting a decade-long militant Islamist insurgency.
Carolina Sandretto is an Italian photographer based in New York. She focuses on the ``solares,'' the crumbling buildings that many Cubans divide and cohabitate. ``It creates a whole community, even if neighbors really don't like each other,'' she said.
The bill also includes a two-year extension of a popular children's health insurance program. The issue of payments to Medicare providers has been a thorny issue for years. The House approved the same bill overwhelmingly more than two weeks ago and President Obama is expected to sign it.
Roxy Walsh found the ring while snorkeling at Finn's Beach in Bali. The ring was engraved with the words, ``Darling Joe, Happy 70th Birthday 2009. Love Jenny'' Walsh used Facebook to reunite the ring with its owner, Joe Langley.
Parents who refuse to vaccinate their children can lose up to $ 11,000 of welfare benefits a year under a new government policy. Currently parents can opt out of vaccinations for medical or religious reasons, or by stating they are ``conscientious objectors,'' and still receive taxpayer funded child care benefits.
U.S. has lost influence in Latin America to a hyperactive China, a cunning Russia and a troubling Iran, says Frida Ghitis. Ghitis : The Summit of the Americas offers a chance for the United States to reverse the tide. She says the foundations for a strong hemispheric bloc are there but they need attention.
Dozens of foreigners, including Americans, have volunteered to take the fight to ISIS. Outside agencies are working with Kurdish government troops and even militia in Iraq and Syria. It is illegal to join a Syrian militia, but some organizations have set up recruitment drives. The Peshmerga, the military wing of the Kurdish Regional Government, has said they don't want or need foreign fighters.
Georgian chess grandmaster Gaioz Nigalidze is banned from the Dubai Open Chess Tournament. Officials discovered he was darting to the toilet to consult his smartphone. The phone was logged onto a chess analysis app, the Dubai Chess and Culture Club says. The infraction has been reported to the International Chess Federation.
HLN's #MeForReal is an uplifting, revealing conversation about the way we present ourselves online. Tag your favorite unscripted, unedited, un-perfected moments using #Me forReal. See what others are sharing on Facebook, Twitter and the Daily Share.
Tulsa County Sheriff's Office has denied the allegations in the Tulsa World's report. Robert Bates, 73, killed Eric Harris during a sting operation on April 2. Bates claims he meant to use his Taser but accidentally fired his handgun at Harris. Sheriff Stanley Glanz has repeatedly insisted Bates was properly trained.
The items were made by Japanese-Americans confined to World War II internment camps. A change.org petition, a Facebook page and mediation by George Takei led to the decision. ``We hope this controversy will be the beginning of a discourse on this issue,'' auction house says.
A judge orders V. Stiviano to pay back more than $ 2.6 million in gifts from Donald Sterling. Sterling's wife sued her, saying she targeted wealthy older men. Shelly Sterling was thrilled with the court decision, her lawyer says. The gifts included a Ferrari, two Bentleys and a Range Rover.
Thabo Sefolosha says his leg injury was caused by the police. He and teammate Pero Antic were arrested near the scene of a stabbing in New York. Police say they were not involved in the stabbing, but they were charged with misdemeanors.
``It's amazing a lot of the information we learned today,'' a female juror says. ``It's the hardest thing I've ever done in my life,'' says a woman on the jury. ``For me, Judge Garsh said, `Keep your mind suspended,''' says a male juror.
Jason Rezaian is accused of economic spying, state media report. The Washington Post calls the allegations ``absurd'' The State Department calls the charges against him ``abundant'' The Iranian-American has been in jail for nearly nine months, his family says.
Al Qaeda confirms that two of its leaders were killed in CIA drone strikes in January. Peter Bergen : Al Qaeda has virtually no capacity to carry out attacks in the West. He says al Qaeda is now reduced only to holding American hostages. Berner : ISIS continues to attract Western recruits and inspire ``homegrown'' terrorists.
The U.N. Security Council votes in favor of an arms embargo on Houthis. The resolution ``raises the cost'' for the Houthis, Britain's ambassador to the United Nations says. It also demands that the Shiite group pull back and refrain from more violence.
Authorities detained a 15-year-old girl from Cape Town, South Africa, at the city's airport. They received information she was leaving the country to join ISIS, State Security Minister David Mahlobo says. Officials debriefed the girl's family and released her into the family's care.
TV5Monde says it was ``hacked by an Islamist group'' ISIS logos and markings could be seen on some social media accounts. There was no immediate claim of responsibility by ISIS or any other group. The outage began around 10 p.m. Paris time.
Former rap mogul Marion ``Suge'' Knight is ordered to stand trial for murder and other charges. He is accused of running over two men, killing one of them, during an argument. The incident happened on the set of the biopic ``Straight Outta Compton''
Robert Bates is accused of manslaughter in the death of Eric Harris. Harris died after Bates shot him -- accidentally, he says -- in a tussle captured on a police body camera. The sheriff's office is fending off allegations that supervisors forged Bates' training records.
Hashtags such as #PeaceMarch and #SayNoToXenophobia are being used on social media. The marches follow recent violent attacks on foreigners in the country that have claimed five lives. Attacks this week in Durban alone have killed two immigrants and three South Africans.
George Davon Kennedy, of Murfreesboro, Tennessee, was arrested in Georgia. Ryan Calhoun and Delonte Martistee were arrested and charged with sexual battery. A woman told police she may have been drugged and gang-raped on Panama City Beach.
It has been 42 days since the last known case of B3 strain of measles. The outbreak began with dozens of visitors to two Disney theme parks in the state. Of the 131 cases, the state was able to obtain the vaccination status for 81 patients. Measles is a highly contagious respiratory disease.
``Furious 7'' hits theaters Friday. The cast is racially and ethnically inclusive. The filmmakers even went so far as to make sure casting directors in Abu Dhabi and Dubai, where key scenes were filmed. The film franchise is doing a much better job of reflecting its audience.
The blast happened at the spot where a county worker was operating a front loader. The operator of the front loader was injured but able to walk to an ambulance, the sheriff says. The most serious injuries were suffered by a group of inmates who were assigned to maintenance and cleaning.
A YouTube user uploaded the handheld or camera phone capture of the trailer. The highly anticipated footage was set to premiere in Imax theaters on Monday. ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice'' will be released on March 25, 2016 and stars Affleck as Batman.
John Helinski was homeless and nameless for three years. His ID and Social Security cards had been stolen. A big-hearted cop and a case worker helped him get back into the system. Now he's set to buy his own place and collect a nice pension.
Dr. Anthony Moschetto, 54, pleads not guilty to criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson, criminal prescription sale and weapons charges. Two other men -- identified as James Chmela, 43, and James Kalamaras, 41 -- were named as accomplices.
``I don't give a f -- what you want,'' Kenneth Morgan Stancil III tells a judge. He is accused of killing an employee at Wayne Community College in North Carolina. Relatives have said victim Ron Lane was gay. Authorities are looking into whether the shooting was a hate crime.
Remains of up to nearly 400 service members tied to the USS Oklahoma will be exhumed. The hope is that most of the battleship's sailors and Marines can be identified. The USS Oklahoma sank when it was hit by torpedoes on December 7, 1941.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visited the Yarmouk refugee camp in Syria. He met Jihad and Mohammad, who were taken from the camp in recent days. Ban : The fact that they are alive truly make them miracle children. He says the international community must act in a concerted manner.
Mohamed Mohamud is suspected of being the ``mastermind'' behind last week's university massacre. He is believed to be in command of an Al-Shabaab militia based near Kenya's long, porous border with Somalia. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta announced three days of national mourning.
All U.S. Consulate personnel are safe and accounted for, State Department says. ISIS claims responsibility for a suicide car bomb attack in Irbil, Iraq. At least four people were killed and 18 injured, police say. The blast sent a huge fireball into the sky.
Pope Francis used the word ``genocide'' for the first time at a special Mass Sunday. He quoted a document issued 14 years ago by former Pope John Paul II. The Vatican has walked the line between spiritual and worldly concerns for centuries. Turkey called the Pope's use of the term ``unacceptable''
Producers of ``Star Wars : The Force Awakens'' unveiled a nearly two-minute trailer. A logic problem from a Singapore math test somehow spread across the Web. The first set of female quintuplets in the world since 1969 were born in Houston. A new book explores how social media may go too far in encouraging haters.
CNN was granted rare access on a desperate aid mission by Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund. More than 100,000 Yemeni civilians have fled their homes since fighting began. The main terminal at El Rahaba Airport is under the control of Houthi rebels.
Adrian Peterson will be reinstated as an active player by the NFL on Friday, the league says. The NFL suspended the 30-year-old football star in November over allegations he disciplined his son too harshly. Peterson played in one game last season, a 35-6 win against St. Louis.
Tulsa County reserve deputy Robert Bates, 73, is on administrative leave. Police say he thought he pulled out his Taser during an arrest, but instead shot the suspect. Eric Courtney Harris, 44, later died at a local hospital and his cause of death is under investigation.
Jonathan Crombie played Gilbert Blythe in the ``Anne of Green Gables'' TV movies. He died Wednesday from complications of a brain hemorrhage, producer Kevin Sullivan says. ``It's a real tragedy to see someone at age 48 go like that,'' he says.
Documents show Robert Bates had one Taser training class over a six-and-a-half-year period. He took three firearms training classes and qualified 10 times, from 2009 to 2014, to use a handgun. His evaluations say he got along with other officers and related well with the public.
Chinese police have arrested more than 133,000 people and seized 43.3 tons of illegal narcotics. Authorities also handled 115,000 drug-related crimes -- such as robbery -- and 606,000 cases of drug use. The figures were nearly double the same period a year earlier.
Photographer Tomasz Lazar spent hours photographing and interviewing adults who were ripped from their homes as children in the 1940s. Soviet authorities invaded Poland during World War II and deported hundreds of thousands of Poles. Some were sent to prison camps in the frozen wilderness of central Russia.
Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot on Germanwings Flight 9525, was diagnosed with depression. Michael Schulder : It's curious to me how the red flags of his illness were missed. He says the selection process is most likely highly competitive, requiring above-average aptitude.
Women and girls in India continue to be harassed on local transportation and other public spaces. A study by We the People found that 80 % of women in Mumbai had been street harassed. Most people, including women, only think of sexual violence as rape and overlook other forms.
This week's attack on Garissa University College is Al-Shabaab's fifth major assault in Kenya in the past year and a half. The terrorist group says its attacks are to protest the more than 3,500 Kenyan soldiers participating in the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia.
Jack White announced he'll take a hiatus from touring. White will wrap his touring efforts in support of ``Lazeretto'' with a brief, first-ever acoustic tour. The shows will be unannounced until day-of-show with tickets priced at $ 3.
Michelle MacLaren is leaving the upcoming ``Wonder Woman'' movie. The movie is still set for release on June 23, 2017. It's the first theatrical movie centering around the most popular female superhero. Gal Gadot will appear in ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice''
ABC is filming a proof of concept for a revival of ``The Muppets'' ``The Big Bang Theory'' co-creator Bill Prady is co-writing the script for a pilot presentation. The presentation is set to film next weekend on the Disney lot in Burbank.
Etan Patz went missing in New York City at age 6 in 1979. A New York jury will again deliberate over a possible verdict against the man charged in his killing. Pedro Hernandez confessed to police three years ago. His lawyer has said that he is mentally challenged, severely mentally ill.
Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, 23, of Columbus, allegedly traveled to Syria for training. He wanted to return home to kill Americans, particularly U.S. soldiers, execution style, indictment says. ``I am confident in the system working fairly,'' lawyer says.
National Park Week is April 18 through April 26. Most of the National Park Service's 407 sites are free year-round. The 128 parks that charge a fee -- like Yellowstone and Yosemite -- will be free those two days. Check out night-time astronomy parties, daytime Revolutionary War programs.
Julian Zelizer : 7.7 million low-income households live in substandard housing. He says the more they spend on housing, the less they have to invest in their children's education. HUD is working with local partners across the country to do just that, Zelizer says.
Writers : ``religious freedom'' bills passed in Arkansas and Indiana caught governors off-guard. They say the politicians underestimated the pushback organized by local and national businesses. Writers : It is no longer a good business model or political strategy to be intolerant of diversity.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren says she won't back down on calls for breaking up banks. Julian Zelizer : The dreams of a more economically leftward party are crashing into political reality. He says Democratic populism can't really work within the current campaign finance system. Zelizer says the party needs to take a stand against Wall Street.
Ruben Navarrette : Rolling Stone's mistakes are regrettable but understandable. He says the magazine's decision not to fire anybody or reorganize its newsroom operation is not. He asks why Rolling Stone didn't fire, demote or discipline anybody at Rolling Stone.
Jon Cryer reprised his ``Duckie'' dance on ``Late Late Show'' James Corden tweeted that he'd ``fulfilled a childhood dream'' The scene is one of the best-loved bits from the 1986 John Hughes film. Cryer turned 50 on Thursday.
Debra Lobo, a 55-year-old California native, was shot in the right cheek and left arm. Police found pamphlets that the assailants had thrown into Lobo's car. Lobo had left the Jinnah Medical and Dental College to pick up her two daughters.
Thursday marks three weeks since Saudi Arabia began airstrikes on Houthi rebels in Yemen. The Houthis forced Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January. Fears grow that Iran and Saudi Arabia are fighting a proxy war in Yemen for regional domination.
Ines Dumig's photo series ``Apart Together'' features Somali refugee Sahra. Dumig met Sahra through a photo workshop at Refugio, a shelter in Munich, Germany. The underlying themes of the series include the feelings of isolation and ``otherness''
The boys, 16 and 14, are in critical condition at a Philadelphia hospital. Their father, Steve Esmond, is conscious but can not move, their lawyer says. The EPA says there was a presence of a pesticide at the villa where the family was staying.
Mario Valencia, 36, faces 15 charges, including shoplifting the.30-30 rifle. Police say the cable gun lock was still on the rifle when it was recovered. But the wire that goes through the trigger and the lever to reload the gun were loose. Walmart says the store clerk acted appropriately.
Jarret Stoll was charged with possession of controlled substances, KSNV reports. He was released from the Clark County Detention Center late Friday on $ 5,000 bail. The L.A. Kings say they are ``concerned'' and are conducting an investigation.
ISIS fighters took thousands of Yazidis captive in Iraq and Syria. The group made it into Iraqi Kurdistan, where they are now living in a refugee camp. The camp is about 18 miles -LRB- 30 kilometers -RRB- from one of the front lines with ISIS. ISIS has released 217 captives.
Maggie Doyne left her New Jersey hometown to travel the world before college. She met women and children who were suffering, struggling to survive in Nepal. In 2006, she purchased land in Surkhet, a district in western Nepal. Today, Kopila Valley Children's Home is home to about 50 children.
ESPN suspends reporter Britt McHenry for a week after a video of her berating a towing company employee surfaced. McHenry posted an apology on Twitter, saying she allowed her emotions to get away from her. The one-minute long video was captured by a surveillance camera.
``Weed 3 : The Marijuana Revolution'' airs at 9 p.m. ET/PT Sunday. Dr. Sanjay Gupta answers readers' questions on medical marijuana. Readers asked how it could help with everything from life-threatening illnesses to chronic pain. Gupta : Teaching about medical marijuana remains taboo in medical school.
Gisele Bundchen walked the runway for the last time Wednesday. Her husband, Tom Brady, congratulated her on Facebook. ``You inspire me every day to be a better person,'' he wrote. Bundchen announced her retirement from the catwalk last weekend. She is the face of Chanel and Carolina Herrera.
Davion Navar Henry Only, 16, has been in foster care since he was 7. He asked a church to help him find a forever parent in 2013. A video of his plea went viral, and thousands of people called his agency. His new mom, Connie Going, already has three children.
``We once again unequivocally condemn the maiming and killing of our brothers and sisters,'' government says. Thousands sought refuge in temporary shelters after mobs with machetes attacked immigrants. The attacks in Durban killed two immigrants and three South Africans, including a 14-year-old boy.
The group of friends, ages 19 to 21, were arrested Sunday. ``Nothing stopped these defendants from plotting their goal,'' U.S. attorney says. Recruiting for the ISIS terrorist network is a problem in Minnesota's Somali community. Four of the men who were arrested appeared in federal court on Monday.
Jason Warnock was driving through a canyon in Lewiston, Idaho, on Wednesday. He saw an SUV dangling over the edge of a cliff. ``I was like, I got ta do something and no one was doing anything,'' Warnock says. A dramatic photo of the rescue made headlines around the world.
Joy Womack was one of the first Americans accepted into the Bolshoi Ballet Academy. In 2013 she left under a cloud -- media reports suggested she was asked by an unnamed Boshoi official to pay $ 10,000 to dance in even small roles. The dancer did not pursue a case against the BolShoi.
Photographer Timothy Bouldry traveled the world photographing landfills. The Boragaon landfill is located in the city of Guwahati, about 300 miles from Bangladesh. About 100 families live inside the landfill, and they are experts at repurposing.
Africa is one of the fastest growing regions in terms of middle class. Sales of high-end products grew by a third between 2008 and 2013. Africa's rich like to stick to well-known global labels that carry an automatic badge of status. Luxury brands tend to enter country markets through distributors.
Lawsuit seeks more than $ 1 billion in damages. Orphans, inmates, psychiatric patients and prostitutes were infected, the suit says. The subjects of the experiments weren't told they'd been infected. The Rockefeller Foundation and Bristol-Myers Squibb are defendants.
``Star Wars : Episode VII -- The Force Awakens'' is due out December 18. At an emotional event in Anaheim, California, the cast showed off for the audience. The trailer for the new film capped the presentation with the trailer. The cast was appreciative of the welcome.
``Real Housewives of Beverly Hills'' star Kim Richards is accused of kicking a police officer. Richards was taken into custody by police at the Beverly Hills Hotel on accusations of trespassing, resisting arrest and public intoxication. Richards reportedly entered rehab in 2011 for ``serious issues''
Sheriff Stanley Glanz says he is ``very concerned'' for their safety and that of their families. The deputies were trying to arrest Eric Harris when Reserve Deputy Robert Bates shot him. Unlike Bates, they are not charged with a crime, but have come under criticism.
Chancey Allen Luna is found guilty of first-degree murder in the shooting death of Christopher Lane. Lane, an Australian attending East Central University, was jogging when he was shot in the back. A jury recommended that Luna spend life in prison without the possibility of parole.
Japan's nuclear watchdog had previously given a green light to the reopening of reactors 3 and 4 of the Takahama nuclear plant. But locals successfully petitioned the court in Fukui Prefecture, where the plant is located, raising concerns about whether the reactors would survive a strong earthquake.
ISIS uses Abu Ghraib and other cases of Western abuse to legitimize its actions in Iraq. U.S. poured money into Iraq after 2003 invasion, but did not make support contingent upon a fair distribution of power and resources. Lack of accountability in aftermath of American intervention in Iraq paved the way for abuses.
A new way of talking about climate change is emerging. It shifts focus from impersonal discussions about greenhouse gas emissions to a very personal one : your health. President Barack Obama joined U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy for a roundtable discussion.
Mike Rowe meets Chad Pregracke, the founder of Living Lands & Waters. He and more than 87,000 volunteers have collected 8.4 million pounds of trash from U.S. waterways. His goal in 2015 is to remove 500,000 more pounds.
A reserve deputy in Tulsa, Oklahoma, accidentally shot and killed a man. Robert Bates said he meant to use his Taser but drew his handgun instead. Experts say the gun should be holstered on the officer's dominant side of the body. Bates' attorney says his client is left-handed.
Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin signs a bill allowing nitrogen gas executions. Nitrogen causes a quick loss of consciousness and then death from lack of oxygen, Fallin's office says. The bill's authors say it's a ``humane, quick and painless death''
In 2011, Florida enacted the Firearm Owners' Privacy Act, which threatens prosecution. In Arizona, another assault on physician free speech is scheduled to go into effect this summer. There's a common relationship shared by these laws, beyond turning doctors into government spokespeople, says John Sutter.
ISIS Wilayat Khorasan claims responsibility for the attack. The claim appears to be the first in Afghanistan by ISIS, CNN's Nick Paton Walsh says. A Taliban spokesman says the attack ``doesn't have anything to do with us'' The U.N. condemns the violence.
The drugs are the biggest cocaine seizure ever carried out by French authorities. The sailboat was falsely flying an American flag in the Caribbean, officials say. One Venezuelan and two Spanish citizens were arrested on the vessel off Martinique. In November, French customs officials seized nearly 250 kilograms of cocaine.
Robert Kennedy Jr. compared ``vaccine-induced'' autism to the Holocaust. David Perry : Kennedy has apologized for the wrong things. He says Kennedy seems to think people with autism are ``gone,'' their lives ``destroyed'' Perry : Autism is not a death sentence.
Iraqi security forces regained full control of the Baiji refinery, the coalition says. A week ago, ISIS claimed it controlled part of the facility. Peshmerga forces cleared 84 square kilometers -LRB- 32 square miles -RRB- of ISIS-occupied territory in Iraq. The goal was to push back ISIS and ``diminish its ability to threaten the security''
Josh and Vanessa Ellis were youth pastors at a church in Puyallup, Washington. The couple and their 8-month-old son were driving underneath a highway overpass in Bonney Lake. Concrete from a construction project crashed onto the family's car, authorities say.
The robot detected lower radiation levels and temperature than expected. The shape-shifting robots were sent in to assess the damage in one of the reactors. TEPCO says the site's still too dangerous for workers to enter. Decommissioning work is estimated to cost $ 50 billion.
The American Pharmacists Association votes to adopt a ban as an official policy. The group says such activities are ``fundamentally contrary to the role of pharmacists as healthcare providers'' The group acted this week because of increased public attention on lethal injection, a spokeswoman says.
A U.N. official says the boat may have capsized after being touched or swamped by a cargo ship. The account differs from that provided by Italian authorities on Sunday. They said that as the cargo ship King Jacob approached, migrants on the smaller boat moved.
A Russian TV channel aired Hillary Clinton's first campaign video with a rating stamp that means it's for mature audiences. The channel said it didn't want to break the controversial law, which bans ``propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations around minors'' Clinton's video was released over the weekend to announce the start of her 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.
Militant group Al-Shabaab claims responsibility for the attack. The restaurant is across the street from the Central Hotel, where Al - Shabaab killed at least 15 people in February. The streets outside the restaurant were ``littered with debris and human body parts''
Daisy Bentley, 23, has been collecting notes for the past six years. Her collection includes shopping lists, reminders, requests, love notes and motivational musings. A gallery in London has put a selection on display for the public. Bentley says she finds the note collection an interesting way to explore people's lives.
In 2014, 170,000 migrants arrived in Italy by sea. The islands of Sicily and of Lampedusa see an almost daily influx of human misery. Despite the danger, the great majority head first for Libya, where the collapse of authority allows smuggling operations to go unhindered.
Five years after the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded, we are only beginning to understand its effects. It's still unclear where all of the oil went, how much remains or whether the reappearance of wildlife is a result of adaptation or a signal that the crisis is truly abating.
The Mu Du Bong was detained after it ran aground off the coast of Mexico in July. Mexico defended the move Wednesday, saying it followed proper protocol. The company that owns the ship, North Korea's Ocean Maritime Management company, has skirted United Nations sanctions.
A federal jury convicted Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of 30 charges related to the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. The outcome of this first phase may have been preordained, but the trial has held Boston in thrall. The only issue to be decided is whether Tsarnaev should be executed.
Heather Mack, 19, and Tommy Schaefer, 21, were found guilty of killing Sheila von Wiese-Mack. Mack, who gave birth to her own daughter just weeks ago, was sentenced to 10 years in prison. Schaefer was given an 18-year prison sentence for the murder.
23 people had minor injuries after Flight 162 landed at 8:05 p.m., sources say. The Airbus A320 may have hit an object on the runway during landing, the ministry says. There were 73 passengers and eight crew members aboard the flight from South Korea.
Drake appeared less than enthused after Madonna's prolonged smooch onstage. ``Oh, s ***. What the f *** just happened ?'' he asked moments later from the stage. It all went down after Drake performed ``Madonna'' off his new mixtape.
Bundchen announced over the weekend that she would be retiring from the catwalk, though not the fashion industry. The 34-year-old, who is married to New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and has two children, said she wants to spend more time with her family.
A look at Oklahoma City, 20 years later. A fly-by of Pluto, 4 billion miles away. The struggle to save the last male northern white rhino in the world. The use of marijuana as a medicinal treatment actually dates back to 2730 B.C.
Mountaineers have returned to Mount Everest for this year's climbing season. A piece of glacial ice fell last year, unleashing an avalanche that killed 16 Nepalis. The route through Khumbu Icefall, the notoriously treacherous path, has been changed to one that takes longer.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, has been found guilty on every count in the Boston Marathon bombings. He faces life in prison if convicted of all charges. On Tuesday, jurors heard about the holes his bombs left in the hearts of the survivors and families of the dead.
Bishop Robert Finn was found guilty in 2012 of failure to report suspected child abuse. He was the highest-ranking U.S. Catholic official convicted in the church's long-running sex abuse scandal. Finn kept his job as bishop, even after his 2012 conviction. The Kansas City-St. Joseph diocese has a new leader : Kansas Archbishop Joseph Naumann.
YouTuber Bobby Burns made his own version of the ``Batman v. Superman'' trailer. The 18-year-old used classic superhero footage. He says he wanted to contrast the old with the new. The video has gone viral in just a few hours on YouTube.
The TV season is winding down, and the finales are starting. ``The Americans'' has been praised as one of the best series on TV. ``Fresh Off the Boat'' hasn't been picked up for a second season, but the signs are looking good. The Academy of Country Music Awards are Sunday.
``Fantastic Four'' and ``Jurassic World'' trailers were released over the weekend. The new trailer for ``Fantastics Four'' shows a different side of the characters. The ``jurassic world'' trailer features even more of Chris Pratt's character.
The Academy of Country Music Awards celebrated its 50th anniversary on Sunday night. The 2015 ACM Awards brought in the biggest audience for a live TV awards show ever. Here's our breakdown of the 10 best and 5 worst moments at the 2015 ACMs. The Best : Eric Church & Keith Urban provide an opening wallop.
Ringo Starr is the final Beatle to be inducted as a solo act. Green Day was inducted by Fall Out Boy. Joan Jett & the Blackhearts were inducted in her own inimitable way. Tom Morello played a nasty scabrous solo.
The author of a 2006 novel has accused the ``Avengers'' director and ``Cabin'' director Drew Goddard of stealing his idea. Joss Whedon produced and co-wrote the script for Cabin with Goddard, a writer on Whedon's ``Buffy the Vampire Slayer''
New Line Cinema is planning a Mariah Carey Christmas movie. Her 1994 hit ``All I Want For Christmas is You'' is a classic. The'90s are so coming back. Mariah was the queen of the 1990s, so it's only right she get in on the revival.
Olivia Wilde and Garrett Hedlund are set to return for Disney's ``Tron 3'' The pair will reprise their characters from 2010's `Tron : Legacy' ``Legacy'' was the sequel to the 1982 sci-fi film that starred Jeff Bridges.
The arrest and death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore has stoked protests and accusations of police brutality. It's unclear how Gray suffered a severe spinal cord injury that led to his death seven days later. Gray was arrested on a weapons charge in a high-crime area of Baltimore.
Pope Francis may make a stop in Cuba on his way to or from the U.S. in September, the Vatican says. The possibility was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. The Pope helped negotiate a thaw in relations between the United States and Cuba last year.
The red sunsets were the result of raging wildfires in Siberia. The fires have destroyed dozens of villages in the region. The smoke from the fires was picked up by atmospheric winds. The winds carried the smoke from Siberia across the Pacific Ocean and brought it to the Northwest.
Sabra hummus was recalled last month due to possible listeria contamination. Dr. John Swartzberg, a clinical professor at the University of California at Berkeley, explains how to check if your food is safe to eat. ``There's nothing the consumer can do prior to learning about the recall,'' he says.
April is National Get Tested Month in the U.S. John Sutter : Some argue that this freedom to test is the path to a healthier society. But he says the primary effect won't be more health, but rather more medical care. He says there are real side-effects to testing the well : more procedures.
Cyclist Wang Pingan has been cycling around China for 460 days. His bike was stolen in Shenzhen, days before he was due to complete the journey. Police tracked down the thief and returned the bike to Wang, who recognized it. Wang had earlier turned down offers from across China to help him get a new bike.
Saudi Arabia has executed a second Indonesian maid despite protests from Jakarta. Indonesia is itself facing fierce criticism for its failure to heed calls for clemency for a number of foreigners on death row. The Indonesian government summoned the Saudi ambassador to the foreign ministry on Thursday after learning of the second execution.
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has been caught on camera guzzling a glass of beer in seven seconds. His feat of swift consumption in a crowded bar impressed some people but annoyed others. Some commentators focused on Abbott's drinking technique. Others suggested he was setting a bad example.
The three have been in jail since February 22. ``We made our defense, and the judge made the decision to drop the case,'' their lawyer says. Conrad Clitheroes, Gary Cooper and Neil Munro were on a five-day visit to the UAE.
Boko Haram has been waging a years-long campaign of terror aimed at instituting Sharia law in Nigeria. The last attack in Cameroon by the Nigeria-based militants was March 10. Cameroonian troops retook cattle that was stolen by the attackers, a military spokesman says.
The elite police commando unit waited hours for transport from Nairobi, Kenya, to Garissa. Al-Shabaab slaughtered 147 people at the school. Of the fatalities, 142 were students at the university, and the rest were security forces and campus security.
The iPad was signed by the Pope's personal secretary. The proceeds will go to a school in Montevideo, Uruguay. It's not the first time a papal hand-me-down has gone for big bucks. Last year, the Pope donated a Harley-Davidson to charity.
Polish Prince challenges Nigel Farage to a duel in London's Hyde Park. Prince Jan Zylinski says he is fed up with discrimination against Poles living in Britain. Farage complains that Britain's membership of the European Union means it is powerless to stop a flow of immigrants.
There are nearly 5,000 ``gems'' scattered across the country, ranging from museums to archaeological areas and monuments. Italy boasts the highest number of UNESCO World Heritage sites in the world. Several of which risk crumbling to the ground due to neglect and lack of public resources.
Copenhagen's Carlsberg City is a new neighborhood set to emerge on the historic grounds of the famous beer-maker. The area has been home to the famous brewery since 1847, and with it a big slice of Danish cultural history. The project has since attracted interest from all over the world.
The fire has burned nearly 2,000 acres and is 50 % contained, the fire department says. High temperatures and gusty winds helped the fire spread, a state forester says. One school, Lincoln Marti, was evacuated as a precaution, the Fire Department says.
A small boat carrying about 50 migrants left from the area of Le Borgne, west of Cap-Haitien. It began to sail toward the island of Providenciales in the Turks and Caicos. The vessel hit a reef and sank as it tried to return to shore.
Chilean photographer Andres Figueroa photographed religious festivals in the Atacama Desert. The festivals attract about 200,000 people to some otherwise quiet mining towns in Chile. The photos highlight the uniqueness of Andean culture, which draws influences from Europe, Inca and Chinese traditions.
``What Pet Should I Get ?'' debuts July 28. It's the first new, original Dr. Seuss book since ``Oh, the Places You'll Go !'' in 1990. It features the spirited siblings from the beloved classic ``One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish''
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty of multiple counts in the Boston Marathon bombing. Peter Bergen : The trial vindicated the U.S. judicial system's ability to handle terrorism cases. He says the city's response to the tragedy was based on the competency of the police. Bergen says the marathon response was focused on family unification.
Former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley is intensifying his criticism of Hillary Clinton. Clinton finds a lot to love, and some distance from President Obama's leadership style. A GOP ticket for the generations, and Republican calendar concerns filled our Sunday trip around the ``Inside Politics'' table.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty on all 30 charges related to the 2013 bombings. The sentencing phase begins Tuesday, a day after this year's Boston Marathon. Martin Richard and two others were killed and more 200 people wounded. The Richards are urging the Justice Department to end the case.
AC/DC drummer Phil Rudd pleads guilty to charges of threatening to kill and possession of drugs. The 60-year-old Australian was arrested in November last year after police found methamphetamine and cannabis while executing a search warrant at his home in New Zealand. Rudd could face up to seven years in prison.
Frida Ghitis : The U.S.-Iranian relationship is not symmetrical. She says Iran has no problem reconciling its bad and contradictory behavior while we twist ourselves into knots over our tough choices. Ghitis says by making the nuclear issue the be-all and end-all that is supposed to reduce Iran's power, the United States is only making Tehran taller.
Recent spikes in HIV and hepatitis C infections among injecting drug users in rural Indiana and Kentucky. Many have stood by the belief that such programs, known as syringe exchange or syringe services programs, promote and encourage drug use. But scientific evidence continues to show that this is simply not true.
Erika Langhart, 24, died after suffering multiple pulmonary embolisms. Doctors cited the NuvaRing as a risk factor for the blood clots. Megan Henry, a classmate of Erika's, had a similar scare a year later. Henry is training to compete in the Olympics.
A new species of glassfrog has been found in Costa Rica. It's called a glassfrog because of its translucent belly. The last time a new glassfrog was found in the country was in 1973. The species is called Hyalinobatrachium dianae.
Rabbis Mendel Epstein, Jay Goldstein and Binyamin Stimler were convicted Tuesday. They were accused of planning and participating in the torture of Jewish men who refused to divorce their wives. Lawyers for each of the rabbis said they plan on appealing the convictions.
The jury resumes deliberations in Aaron Hernandez's murder trial. The former NFL star is accused of killing semi-pro player Odin Lloyd. Prosecutors say Hernandez killed Lloyd because he was jealous of his fame. Hernandez's lawyers say he had no reason to kill the man who was his friend.
James Best played bumbling sheriff Rosco P. Coltrane on TV's ``The Dukes of Hazzard'' He died in hospice in Hickory, North Carolina, of complications from pneumonia, a friend says. Best had been a busy actor for decades in theater and Hollywood.
Illinois State University associate men's basketball coach Torrey Ward and deputy athletic director Aaron Leetch died. The aircraft went down about 2 miles east of the Central Illinois Regional Airport in Bloomington. The plane was coming back from the NCAA Final Four championship game in Indianapolis.
The town of Celoron is looking for a new sculptor to fix the ``Scary Lucy'' statue. Artist Dave Poulin has apologized for his ``most unsettling sculpture'' The town has set up a post office box for donations, which can be made through Kickstarter.
Al-Shabaab gunmen slaughtered 147 people at a college campus in Garissa, Kenya, on Thursday. Kenyan special forces moved in at the campus located about 90 miles from Somalia's southern border. Kenyan security forces retaliated with an offensive across the border into Somalia.
Al Qaeda fighters attack a prison in the coastal Yemeni city of Al Mukallah. At least 270 prisoners, a third of whom have al Qaeda links, are freed, officials say. Dozens of attackers take control of government buildings, including the city's Central Prison, Central Bank.
A student at Dokuz Eylul University in the western province of Izmir started the petition. ``There are less and less Jedi left on the Earth,'' the petition says. The page on Change.org also features a still of Jedi Grand Master Yoda.
Frances Bean Cobain is the daughter of Nirvana singer-guitarist Kurt Cobain. She is an executive producer of the new HBO documentary on his life, ``Kurt Cobain : Montage of Heck'' ``I don't really like Nirvana that much,'' she says.
UNICEF says 16 tons of medical supplies have landed in Yemen's capital, Sanaa. Aid agencies have been saying that supplies were desperately needed, but getting them into the country was difficult. Many more are reportedly trying to make the trip but are hampered by fuel shortages.
Canadian fighter jets carry out their first airstrike against ISIS in Syria. The CF-18 Hornets bombed near ISIS' de facto capital of Raqqa. Canadian forces are part of the U.S.-led coalition trying to stem the extremist group's advances. The Canadian aircraft and their crews safely returned to base.
Michael Slager's mother tells ABC her son loved being a police officer. Slager, 33, has been fired from the North Charleston Police Department. His wife is eight months' pregnant and the city will continue paying for her medical insurance. The FBI is involved in the investigation.
About a quarter of a million Australian homes and businesses have no power. About 4,500 people have been isolated by flood waters as roads are cut off. The emergency services have been slammed with 13,000 calls for help. The powerful storm has already claimed four lives.
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key is accused of sexual harassment. A waitress complained about him repeatedly pulling her ponytail at an Auckland cafe. Key publicly apologized to the 26-year-old waitress after she complained in a blog post. The National Council of Women of New Zealand criticized Key.
``Success Kid'' is now an 8-year-old named Sammy Griner. His dad, Justin, needs a kidney transplant. A GoFundMe campaign has raised more than $ 75,000 so far. The family doesn't know when a kidney might become available.
Three of the teens have been released ``pending further enquiries,'' police say. Two remain in custody ; one has been charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist act. Police say the suspects were targeting a ceremony on Anzac Day, April 25. Prime Minister Tony Abbott calls the suspects the ``Daesh death cult''
Aaron Hernandez has pleaded not guilty to murder and two weapons charges. He's accused of orchestrating the shooting death of Odin Lloyd. The motive is still unclear but not legally required to get a conviction. The trial has involved a complicated cast of characters, including two sisters.
ESPN reporter Britt McHenry was suspended for a week for her comments to a towing company worker. CNN's Kelly Wallace says she's taught her daughters to show respect to others. She says McHenry showed that she either forgot those ``golden rule'' lessons from childhood.
Alfred Taubman, who helped change the face of suburban life, dies at 91. He founded the company that developed some of the best-known malls in the U.S. He was born January 31, 1924, in Michigan to German Jewish immigrants.
``The Blob'' is a huge area of unusually warm water in the Pacific. Scientists say a high-pressure ridge over the West Coast has calmed ocean waters for two winters. The warmer temperatures aren't due to more heating, but less winter cooling, scientists say.
Tristan da Cunha, a volcanic archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean, is home to just under 270 people. The island is only accessible by sea 60-days-a-year through a small port in its only town, Edinburgh. With limited transport and communication links, the islanders are keen to see how they can reduce their reliance on fossil fuels.
Enoch Gaver, 21, was killed in the fight in the town of Cottonwood, Arizona. Police Sergeant Jeremy Daniels was hit in the leg by a bullet fired during the melee. Four members of the family were charged with assaulting an officer and resisting arrest.
The mass killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire began 100 years ago Friday. Some scholars say it was the first genocide of the 20th century, even though the word ``genocide'' did not exist at the time. Estimates range from 300,000 to 2 million deaths between 1914 and 1923.
Larry Upright died just one day after Hillary Clinton announced she was running for president. In his obituary, his family made just two requests : Please donate to a children's hospital, and please don't vote for Clinton. ``He was very passionate about politics,'' his daughter says.
Hillary Clinton announced Sunday that she will run for president in 2016. The former secretary of state has long enjoyed a close relationship with the financial industry. Clinton's perceived coziness with Wall Street is a source of irritation for liberal activists. The liberal wing of the party has grown even more vocal and influential.
Lewis Hamilton takes pole position for Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix. Hamilton beats teammate Nico Rosberg by four hundredths of a second. Rosberg refused to shake Hamilton's hand after the session. Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel will start third on the front row after winning in Malaysia.
On April 17, 1975, Phnom Penh fell to the Khmer Rouge regime of the Communist Party of Kampuchea. Ly Sivhong, then 13, was separated from her mother and two of her sisters. About 20,000 people died from execution, starvation or exhaustion during this exodus.
In 2014 more than 80 % of migrants headed for the Libyan coast as the easiest point of embarkation. From the Horn of Africa to the Atlantic, these would-be migrants travel well-established smuggling routes. Along the way they must cross deserts and mountains, risk kidnap or robbery.
Sid Ahmed Ghlam, 24, is suspected of killing a 32-year-old woman, authorities say. He called for an ambulance Sunday, saying he had accidentally injured himself. But authorities found more than a man with a gunshot wound in his thigh. They found weapons, ammunition and evidence of his plans to target churches.
Valerie Braham's husband, Philippe, was killed in January's terror attacks in Paris. He was in a kosher supermarket when a gunman stormed in, killing four people, all of them Jewish. ``Now I truly understand everyone who has lost a loved one,'' she said.
Mohammed Abu Khdeir's name appeared this week on the wall at Jerusalem's Mount Herzl. He was beaten and burned alive by three Israelis in July, according to prosecutors. His father said no one asked for his permission to put his son's name on the memorial.
Penelope Cruz will join the cast of ``Zoolander 2'' Ben Stiller announced the news on social media. The sequel to the 2001 film is scheduled for release in February 2016. Stiller has been sharing photos from the film's production in Italy on Twitter.
``Operation Renewal of Hope'' will focus on the political process. A Saudi-led coalition ends its nearly monthlong airstrike campaign in Yemen. The Saudis say they want to restore the Yemeni government, a key U.S. ally. The Houthis agree to ``nearly all demands'' of the U.N. Security Council.
Adam Gadahn, 36, was killed in January in a U.S. government counterterrorism operation. He was known as the American mouthpiece of al Qaeda, speaking against his native country. Gadahn converted to Islam in 1995 and left the United States for Pakistan three years later.
Experts say North Korea appears to be investing more in cyberwarfare because it is cheaper than spending on conventional weapons. South Korea estimates that North Korea is operating a ``cyberarmy'' of 6,000 workers as it focuses on strengthening its asymmetrical warfare capability.
Julian Zelizer : It's only a few weeks since the first presidential announcement. He says most of the candidates -- and some probable candidates -- are already starting to make mistakes. Some of them might end up being more damaging if they feed into negative perceptions, he says.
``It was just laying down just right like that, boom,'' Paul McGloin says. Police are investigating, but no other headstones were knocked over. Funeral director Neil Regan says vandalism is the most-likely cause, not the weather. ``I'm not sure how else it would have fallen over,'' police chief says.
Kijoto, a 20-year-old western lowland gorilla, is known to have occasional skirmishes. The Henry Doorly Zoo gorilla exhibit has multiple layers of both glass and acrylic. Even with the crack, the public was never in danger, the zoo says.
Steve Woolfenden's son, Leo, was conscious but bleeding from the left side of his head. ``I was completely terrified because I didn't know if I was ever going to see my son again,'' he said. A group of Tsarnaev's relatives arrived at Boston's Logan International Airport.
WWF : 70 percent of ocean's overall economic value relies on its continued health. 90 percent of the world's fish stocks are either fully exploited or over-exploited. By 2050, it is possible that the ocean could lose its coral reefs, WWF says.
Iran and Saudi Arabia each point to the other as the main reason for much of the turmoil in the Middle East. The Iranian-Saudi conflict by proxy has reached Yemen in a spiral that both sides portray as climatic. Both sides have good reasons to want to stop the Yemeni crisis from spiraling out of control.
Many of the refugees involved in recent disasters come from some of Italy's former colonies in North and East Africa. Libya -LRB- 1912-1941 -RRB- plays a central role in the current crisis as the main departure point for Italy. Libya is an example of the long reach of Italian imperialism.
David Rothkopf : U.S. is not doing nearly enough to address the problem of terrorism. He says little of our foreign military financing goes toward this vital facet in our efforts to counter extremism. As a result, violent extremists are making troubling gains, he says.
A cotton lobbyist group claims, one cotton farmer commits suicide every eight hours. Vidarbha, in the eastern region of the state of Maharashtra, is known as the epicenter of the suicide crisis. More than 50 % of India's population is involved in the agricultural and allied sector.
SkyWest Airlines Flight 5622 was originally scheduled to fly from Chicago to Hartford. The plane descended 28,000 feet in three minutes, CNN aviation analyst Mary Schiavo says. The passenger received medical attention before being released, a SkyWest spokeswoman says. SkyWest expects to accommodate 75 passengers on another aircraft.
The New Orleans City Council passed its ban against smoking in January. Bar owners worried about potential revenue loss, while puffing customers bemoaned the loss of their smoking spots. Harrah's New Orleans and bar owners filed a lawsuit to stop the ban, and a hearing is scheduled.
Indonesia has ordered preparations for the execution of 10 inmates on death row. The 10 inmates had their petitions for clemency denied by President Joko Widodo in late 2014. The executions, which will be carried out by firing squad, were planned for earlier this year.
Ricky Gervais tweeted a photo of Rebecca Francis lying next to a dead giraffe. He asked, ``What must've happened to you in your life to make you want to kill a beautiful animal & then lie next to it smiling ?'' In the past three days, his tweet has been retweeted almost 30,000 times.
``It was time to come home,'' Scott Kelley tells People magazine. His wife, Genevieve Kelley, is charged with kidnapping and unlawful flight. The case was featured on CNN's ``The Hunt'' The couple is accused of leaving New Hampshire, kidnapping their daughter.
A North Pacific gray whale completes the longest migration of a mammal ever recorded. The whale, named Varvara, swam nearly 14,000 miles -LRB- 22,500 kilometers -RRB- She left her primary feeding ground off Russia's Sakhalin Island to cross the Pacific Ocean.
Aaron Hernandez is being processed at a maximum-security prison in Walpole. He will then be shipped to the Souza-Baranowski Correctional Center in Shirley. The state's newest prison, opened in 1998, has a matrix of 366 cameras recording live 24 hours a day.
Adrianne Haslet-Davis and her husband, Adam Davis, were standing near the finish line. She recalled the force of the blast that killed three people and injured over 200. ``We were so in love and happy together,'' she told a federal jury Wednesday.
The women will be under police surveillance for a year, their attorney says. The five members of China's Women's Rights Action Group were detained in Beijing, Guangzhou and Hangzhou. The United States had urged China to free them, and the international community harshly criticized them.
Nuclear is our largest source of carbon-free energy, generating over 60 % of our electricity. James Hansen, former head of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said in 2013 that ``continued opposition to nuclear power threatens humanity's ability to avoid dangerous climate change''
More than one-third of U.S. adults are obese. Only 72,000 of 195,000 young men and women signed up to fight for our country. Army recruiters have become fitness coaches, like the trainers on ``The Biggest Loser'' Dr. Sanjay Gupta says doctors need to step in and say we need to fix this.
Gloria Maizes : Girl Scout cookies contain a lot of sugar, white flour, high fructose corn syrup. She says they also contain trans fats, which can increase the risk of heart disease. Maizes says doctors should be speaking up about the dangers of cookies.
ESPN's Britt McHenry was caught on tape berating an employee of a tow company. Frida Ghitis : McHenry should have known better than to have used such words. She says the problem with social media is that it allows people to present and receive whatever angle.
In South Carolina earlier this month, Walter Scott was the subject of a bench warrant for over $ 18,000 in unpaid child support. David Perry : Failure to pay child support is not a crime ; it's rightly a civil matter. Perry : Bench warrants for deadbeat dads are not arrest warrants for crimes.
Cheryl Rios, CEO of Go Ape Marketing, says Hillary Clinton shouldn't be president. Peggy Drexler : Rios' view of women is not unique. She says bias against women in the workplace is so well established. Drexle : We need to say to our daughters : ``You can be anything you want to be''
U.S. President Barack Obama's recent explanation of how his administration will engage with the Middle East is far from reassuring to the region. Instead of the ``new beginning'' that the President outlined in his much discussed Cairo speech in 2009, he remains mired in a contradiction.
Robert Bates, 73, shot and killed a man while playing cops and robbers with real police. Bates was a reserve deputy sheriff, which allowed him to work full time jobs in the community. He had taken part in more than 100 operations with the violent crimes task force.
Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton's new campaign video is all about being a woman. He says it's fine to celebrate that she's a woman, but it's not the best strategy. Zelizer says Democrats who pandered to women crashed and burned in 2014.
Ruben Navarrette : Marco Rubio has been his own worst enemy on two signature issues. Navarro : Rubio has missed an opportunity to set himself apart from other GOP candidates. He says Rubio's political philosophy will be a tough sell to Hispanics. Rubio is a fresh face on stale ideas, not a winning combination, he says.
Sawyer Sweeten grew up before the eyes of millions as a child star on the endearing family sitcom ``Everybody Loves Raymond'' He was weeks away from his 20th birthday. ``This morning a terrible family tragedy has occurred,'' Madylin Sweeten says.
The NFL launched an investigation into the New England Patriots in January. The league hired attorney Ted Wells to run the investigation. It's still not clear when the investigation will be completed and when the findings will be announced. The Patriots could be fined and docked a draft pick.
Thieves used a drill to bore through a 6-foot-thick wall and gain access to the vault. The thieves disabled the elevator on the second floor and climbed down the shaft into the basement. Police are still trying to identify the owners of the safe deposit boxes.
British police say they knew a burglar alarm went off but didn't respond. The theft was so big that police haven't come up with a value for what was stolen. A former police official has speculated that the loss could run to £ 200 million, or $ 300 million.
Sofia Vergara is the star of the hit TV sitcom ``Modern Family'' She split from businessman Nick Loeb in May 2014. Loeb is suing the Colombian-born actress to prevent her from destroying their two embryos. Court papers allege the couple created the embryos while they were engaged.
Five years after the Gulf oil spill, the long-term negative effects remain unclear. The company that caused the spill says the Gulf of Mexico is healing itself. The government says it's too soon to make long - term conclusions about the rebounding health of the Gulf.
Sources say three people, all students, were found alive. A female student was found under a pile of bodies, sources say. A medic says most of the victims had been shot in the back of the head. Al-Shabaab, an al Qaeda affiliate, claimed responsibility for the attack.
Some members of the terrorist cell had direct contact with Osama bin Laden, police say. The suspects had been under surveillance for years, some as far back as 2005, they say. One of the raids targeted the alleged terrorist cell's headquarters on the island of Sardinia.
A dress worn by Vivien Leigh in ``Gone With the Wind'' sells for $ 137,000. It was the most sought after item among roughly 150 pieces of memorabilia. The collector bought the outfit decades ago for a mere $ 20 as it was being tossed out.
Nigeria's ABUCAR 2 will compete in the European leg of this year's Shell Eco-marathon. Uganda's Makerere University has produced a two-seater electric car. Ghanaian inventor is building SUVs with electric motors powered by rechargeable batteries.
Ashish Thakkar is the founder and CEO of Mara Group, Africa's largest investment firm. The Ugandan-born tycoon has been called ``Africa's youngest billionaire'' He was the first African to sign up for the opportunity to travel to space with Virgin Galactic.
Joao Vaccari Neto is the treasurer of the ruling Workers' Party. He faces charges of corruption and money laundering as part of the broader probe into corruption at Petrobras. Vaccari is the closest political figure to President Dilma Rousseff so far implicated.
Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton's foreign policy experience will be an advantage in the campaign. He says she will have to negotiate and traverse several tricky and rocky paths to ensure that her State Department career remains an advantage and doesn't turn into a liability. Zelizer says she'll have to define her own approach to the world.
The White House is weighing whether to meet with Cuban leader Raul Castro. Hillary Clinton will soon make her presidential campaign official. The Robert Menendez indictment could have a ripple effect on other candidates. The GOP field is getting closer and closer, with three official candidates by Monday.
Chile's Calbuco volcano erupted twice in 24 hours, the country's National Geology and Mining Service says. Military and police forces are assisting with the evacuations of more than 4,400 residents. The first eruption on Wednesday set off a bit of a panic in the region.
Most companies in South Korea have hoesik at least once a month and sometimes every week. Koreans always identify the ``higher'' person in the relationship, and defer to them accordingly. Koreans love singing, as evidenced by the number of karaoke bars in Korea.
As of Tuesday, there were 135 cases -- 129 confirmed, and six preliminary -- of HIV. The increase has been linked to injection drug use, primarily of the prescription opioid opana. The emergency order was first issued last month and set to expire Friday, but now will be in place until May 24.
The U.S. leads the world in incarceration, not education, says Julian Zelizer. We must examine the way our criminal justice system works and take necessary actions, he says. Zelizer : In states such as New Jersey and Connecticut, officials have instituted reforms.
Jake Tapper is the next anchor of CNN's Sunday morning political interview program ``State of the Union'' He will take over the program in June. Tapper will remain the channel's chief Washington correspondent and the anchor of the weekday afternoon newscast ``The Lead''
Airstrikes target rebel Houthi militant positions in three parts of Sanaa, officials say. On Tuesday, Saudi Arabia announced the end of its nearly month-long air campaign. The Saudis say they want to restore the Yemeni government, a key U.S. ally.
``I'm inside a plane and I feel like it's up moving in the air,'' the caller says. ``There could be a person in there so we're going to come back around,'' the pilot tells air traffic control. The ramp agent has been permanently banned from working on Alaska Airlines planes.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry : ``We believe that Chinese authorities should also support them, not silence them'' Authorities detained the women in three cities -- Beijing, Guangzhou and Hangzhou. The five were initially held on suspicion of ``picking quarrels''
Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton surprised the world with unconventional launch of her campaign. He says she opened a long communications campaign to ``rebrand'' herself, reframe who she is, what she stands for. Zelizer says from a marketing perspective, her launch may have been much more successful than critics think.
The U.S. has made clear that it is ready to step up to the plate on climate change, authors say. A successful climate pact will send a signal around the world that a shift to a low-carbon economy is underway, they say. Authors : It's time for all countries to get in the game.
Ahmed Farouq was the deputy emir of al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent. He died in a U.S. counterterrorism airstrike in January, the White House says. The branch made its presence known in September 2014, when militants infiltrated Pakistan's navy.
Kagoshima District Court finds no ``irrationalities'' in new safety standards. The ruling could provide a fillip to the government's plans to bring Japanese nuclear reactors back into operation. Japan's 48 nuclear reactors are offline in the wake of the Fukushima disaster.
Sissa Abu Dahou, 65, has dressed as a man for 43 years. The widow was forced to fend for herself in Egypt's patriarchal south. She worked as a brick maker for just 25 piasters, the equivalent of a few cents, until she saved up enough money.
Jared Leto will play the Joker in ``Suicide Squad'' The actor cut his hair and shaved his face for the role. He will be the first actor to play the character on the big screen since Heath Ledger. The movie hits theaters August 5, 2016.
Julian Zelizer : President Obama has alienated progressive base of Democratic voters. He says Hillary Clinton is trying to walk a fine line somewhere in the middle. Zelizer says if Clinton wants to prove she's a real populist, now's her chance to be even more clear.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is on trial in the Boston Marathon bombing. Peter Bergen : The killing was ``heinous, cruel and depraved'' He says the victims were vulnerable, no one more so than 8-year-old Martin Richard. Bergen says Tsarnaev may take the stand to beg for mercy, but only if he feels remorse.
``The Dark Knight III : The Master Race'' will be released in the fall. It's the final chapter in Frank Miller's best-known story. Miller will be joined by acclaimed artist Brian Azzarello. ``Batman remains my favorite comic book hero,'' Miller says.
Five Georgia Southern nursing students were killed in a multivehicle wreck near Savannah. The young women were on their way to finish their first set of clinical rotations. ``Today should have been a day of celebration for this bright group of students,'' a hospital says.
Molly Schuyler ate three 72-ounce steaks, three baked potatoes, three salads. That's more than 13 pounds of steak, not counting the sides. She did it all in 20 minutes, setting a record in the process. The Nebraska native is a professional on the competitive-eating circuit.
``It's been an incredibly emotional toll on all of us,'' jury foreperson Lesa Strachan tells CNN. Hernandez was convicted of first-degree murder in the 2013 shooting death of Odin Lloyd. ``He didn't need to pull the trigger,'' one juror says.
Warren Weinstein appears to have been the only American citizen held hostage by al Qaeda. A senior U.S. official says the government made no serious effort to negotiate for his release. Pakistani soldiers went door-to-door looking for the American, a senior Pakistani official says.
A third of Americans use some form of alternative medicine, including homeopathic remedies. These drugs do not go through the same level of scrutiny as over-the-counter and prescription drugs. An analysis of hundreds of published studies found that homeopathic medicine was no more effective than a placebo.
Criminal justice reform is rapidly becoming one of the few bipartisan issues of our time. America has the highest incarceration rate in the world, with 5 % of the world's population and 25 % of its prisoners. Nearly 40 % of our country's prisoners are African-Americans.
The John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award goes to a college student and a former congressman. One of them will receive the award for breaking with his party to support climate change. The students believe the U.S. must lead the world on climate change and seize opportunities.
``There was no doubt in my mind that we weren't going to land,'' passenger says. SkyWest spokeswoman : Fifteen passengers were examined by medical personnel at the Buffalo airport. ``It was like being trapped and you couldn't do anything,'' says passenger Larry Johnson.
Warren Weinstein's family paid money to his captors, a Pakistani source says. The money did not lead to the American aid worker's release, and he was killed in January. After the transfer of funds in 2012, the captors began demanding prisoners be released in exchange for Weinstein.
A mysterious affliction has killed as many as 18 people in southwestern Nigeria. The cases have all occurred in Nigeria's Ondo state since April 13. Symptoms include headaches, blurred vision, loss of sight and unconsciousness. The disease does not appear to be contagious.
Slovenian archaeologist Ivan Šprajc has discovered more than 80 ancient Mayan cities in the jungles of Mexico. He has been the first to see ancient pyramids, 30 meters high, that he spotted in aerial photographs from his office in Ljubljana. The region in which he has found such riches had gone unexplored because it's so inaccessible.
North Korean representatives confirm Kim Jong Un will visit Moscow next month. Kim will meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin as part of the May visit, Tass reports. Victory Day marks the 70th anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. Russia has said it has invited more than 60 world leaders to the celebrations.
In the centenary year of the Gallipoli campaign, our nation is at saturation point with battlefield remembrance. Australia's participation in the war was contested from the outset. The conscription referendums of October 28, 1916, and December 20, 1917, became a massive rallying point.
Giovanni Lo Porto was killed in a U.S. drone strike, authorities say. He was abducted in January 2012, along with a fellow al Qaeda hostage. He worked for an aid group in Pakistan, helping with flood reconstruction. His family and friends called him Giancarlo.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he needs more time to form a government. Netanyahu made the request at President Reuven Rivlin's Jerusalem home Monday. Netanyahu's Likud Party snared 30 of the 120 seats in the Knesset, Israel's parliament.
Sandra Mackey predicted events that unfolded in the Middle East well before they happened. Her book on Iraq became required reading for many military leaders trying to understand the country. She was an undercover reporter working for U.S. newspapers from Saudi Arabia. Her work appeared under the pseudonym Michael Collins.
Earthquakes are a fact of life in Nepal, with tremors of magnitude 4 or 5 occurring several times each year. The last major earthquake in 1934 was centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu. Nepal is located on a major plate boundary between India and Eurasia.
The FBI is investigating a possible ISIS-inspired terrorist threat in the United States. The investigation originated from intercepted chatter and other intelligence information, officials say. It's not clear whether the threat is real or aspirational. No arrests have been made, and the exact nature of the threat can not be learned.
Sabeen Mahmud was a figurehead for humanism, love and tolerance in Pakistan. She was shot at point-blank range after she locked up The Second Floor cafe in Karachi. Mahmud's killing broke hearts beating for non-violence and progressive values across Pakistan.
Patrick Dempsey's character dies on ``Grey's Anatomy'' The actor still has a year left on his contract. Ellen Pompeo is also signed through season 12. The show will still do well in the ratings, though not as well as it did in the past.
Aaron Hernandez was found guilty of first-degree murder in the 2013 slaying of Odin Lloyd. Bob Greene : Hernandez walked into court with an air of bravado, his head held high. He didn't look ashamed or remorseful, he never wept, Greene says.
Armenians were systematically killed in the final years of the Ottoman Empire. Turkey denies that a genocide took place, maintaining that hundreds of thousands of Turkish Muslims and Armenian Christians died in intercommunal violence. Many Armenians living in Turkey still feel treated as second class citizens.
Fethiye Cetin is a prominent lawyer who represented Armenian-Turkish journalist Hrant Dink. Dink was a strong proponent of reconciliation between Turks and Armenians. The 1915 forced deportations and massacres were not taught in Turkey's schools. Turkey has always rejected the term ``genocide''
More than one million Armenians were killed during the last days of the Ottoman Empire. Kim Kardashian recently toured Armenia on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the mass killings. Pope Francis recently called the killings ``the first genocide of the 20th century'' Many Armenians continue to brainstorm how to convince Turkey to acknowledge the truth.
Over the past three years Africans have spent over $ 900 million on luxury residential property in London. Nigerians are splashing out the most cash when it comes to bricks and mortar in the British capital. Many of the African buyers see these houses as a way of maintaining long standing cultural ties with London.
Jenner's family owned the moment, being the reality TV mavens they are. ``So very proud of you, my hero,'' tweeted daughter Kendall Jenner. Jenner interview was a key moment for advocacy groups like GLAAD and the National Center for Transgender Equality.
Oskar Gröning is accused of complicity in the murder of 300,000 Jews during his service at Auschwitz. On April 21, on the opening day of his trial in Lüneburg, he acknowledged, ``It is beyond question that I am morally complicit''
In the West, ISIS is widely known for its terrorist actions. But for some communities, the group is the local governing authority. A newly discovered frog has a distinct resemblance to Kermit the Frog. Michelle Obama is 51 years old -- but she certainly doesn't look it.
This page includes the show Transcript. Use the Transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. At the bottom of the page, comment for a chance to be mentioned on CNN Student News. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student news Roll Call.
Protesters rally at Baltimore City Hall on Thursday. Another march is planned for Saturday. Freddie Gray died from a severe spinal cord injury, an autopsy says. Police say they chased Gray, caught him, cuffed him and requested a ``wagon'' to transport him in 4 minutes.
A 14-year-old boy is charged with inciting another person to commit an act of terrorism. He was arrested in Blackburn, Lancashire, and will appear in court Friday. Police say he encouraged an attack on an Australian parade honoring the war dead. They say he also urged the beheading of ``someone in Australia''
Nepal was hit by its worst earthquake since 1934, when more than 10,000 people were killed. Save the Children CEO : Nepal has made remarkable progress on maternal and child health. He says getting food to people will be a logistical nightmare, given only two main roads.
The first set of female quintuplets in the world since 1969 was born in Houston on April 8. Parents Danielle and Adam and big sister Blayke are now a family of eight. The babies are named Ava Lane, Hazel Grace, Olivia Marie and Parker Kate.
92 percent of Americans say it is important to get an annual head-to-toe physical exam. 62 percent of those polled said they went to the doctor every year for their exam. The Society for General Internal Medicine put annual physicals on a list of things doctors should avoid.
Tobacco companies including Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds filed suit this week. The suit alleges the FDA is violating the companies' free speech rights. In March, the FDA issued guidance that if significant changes are made to a product's label, the product requires new approval.
YouTube is investing in ``YouTube Spaces,'' where ``creators'' have access to professional studios. The Tokyo space is one of five worldwide available for free to YouTube partners. YouTube has 300 hours of video uploads per minute. The most popular YouTube channels draw larger audiences than many TV networks.
Research suggests that in trying to conjure up inspiration, most of us end up suppressing it. Neuroscientists John Kounios and Mark Beeman say there's a reason for that. Their book ``The Eureka Factor'' explores the influences at work behind that much sought-after ``Aha !'' moment.
The #KylieJennerChallenge involves sucking on a shot glass to look like Kylie Jenner. In 2014, the number of women undergoing ``buttock augmentation'' rose by 86 %. The ``belfie'' is a self-photography of one's posterior.
Corliss died a week after suffering a major stroke. He was 71. His all-TIME top 100 movies list contained everything from ``Pulp Fiction'' to ``Finding Nemo'' Corliss was not afraid to puncture hype around big movies he found overrated.
``Avengers : Age of Ultron'' co-stars Jeremy Renner and Chris Evans apologize. Renner called Black Widow a ``slut'' in a press junket interview. Evans called her a ``complete whore'' Both actors have since apologized for their comments.
Geoffrey Lewis played Orville Boggs in ``Every Which Way But Loose'' and its sequel. Lewis began his long association with Clint Eastwood in ``High Plains Drifter'' Lewis scored a Golden Globe nomination for playing bartender Earl Tucker on ``Flo''
Marvel's ``Daredevil'' will return for a second season in 2016. The show focuses on attorney Matt Murdock, who was blinded as a child. He fights injustice by day using the law. By night, he becomes the superhero Daredevil and uses his powers to protect the neighborhood.
Oscar-winning rapper-turned-actor Common has closed a deal to join the cast of ``Suicide Squad'' David Ayer is directing the feature, which already boasts actors Jared Leto as the Joker, Will Smith as Deadshot and Margot Robbie as Harley Quinn.
Fox is developing a two-hour remake of the 1975 cult classic. It will be directed, executive-produced and choreographed by Kenneth Ortega. The special is timed to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the film. There is no plan yet for when the adaptation will air.
Alice Barker was a dancer in New York nightspots in the 1930s and 1940s. There were motion pictures made of Barker, but she had never seen any of them. Volunteers put together a video of ``soundies'' -- early music videos -- and showed them to Barker.
``Sopranos'' creator David Chase went through the famous final scene for DGA Quarterly. Chase didn't reveal whether series protagonist Tony Soprano lives or dies. Chase's details are a master class on how to build tension in a seemingly nondescript situation.
Robert Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter in the shooting of Eric Harris. An internal inquiry by the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office in 2009 concluded that Bates was shown special treatment. An attorney for Bates, Clark O. Brewster, said he disputed the findings in the report.
``It was turning into the wild, wild, West,'' Albany County Sheriff Craig Apple says. The chase ended with ``snipers'' from the animals' farm gunning down the buffalo. The herd broke through three strands of high tensile barbed wire to escape the farm.
Robert Champion, 26, died in November 2011 after a band hazing ritual. He was beaten aboard a school bus after a football game in Orlando, Florida. A jury deliberated about 2 1/2 hours before returning guilty verdicts. A total of 15 defendants were charged originally.
Pilot stopped during security checks at Heathrow Airport, police say. He was arrested on suspicion of possession of an offensive weapon in a public place. Passengers were forced to wait in the seats on board the Boeing 777 for more than two hours before the service was canceled.
Hundreds of people are confirmed dead after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. Witness : ``The shake was like nothing I have experienced in my 57 years'' ``I see many cracked buildings and people are panicked and all running down to the streets'' ``My family is traumatised''
Korea's buddae-jjigae dates back to the scarce years of the Korean War. Anthony Bourdain : ``It's a classic example of necessity being the mother of deliciousness'' The host of CNN's ``Parts Unknown'' recently stopped by Anderson Cooper's kitchen.
TSA report : Full employee screening would not ``appreciably increase the overall system-wide protection'' The TSA and most airports could not afford 100 % employee screening, the report says. Only two major airports in the U.S. require employees to be screened.
U.S. will give Americans on no-fly list access to information, chance to dispute status. A June ruling said the old process violated the Fifth Amendment's guarantee of due process. The decision was part of a lawsuit brought on behalf of 13 Americans on the list.
Betty Whitehead Willis designed the ``Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas'' sign. She also designed signs for Moulin Rouge Hotel and Blue Angel Motel. Willis never trademarked her most-famous work, calling it ``my gift to the city'' She retired at age 77.
Four rainbows appeared to stretch across the early morning sky on Tuesday. In rural China, hiring exotic dancers to perform at wakes is an increasingly common practice. 102-year-old Alice Barker went back in time with a prom-posal. Ewan McGregor to play Lumiere in `Beauty and the Beast'
Anthony Doerr's ``All the Light We Can not See'' wins the Pulitzer Prize for fiction. ``Between Riverside and Crazy,'' a play by Stephen Adly Guirgis, wins for drama. Elizabeth Kolbert's ``The Sixth Extinction : An Unnatural History'' wins for general nonfiction.
A mom wanted to buy ``Big Hero 6'' fabric to make pillows for her two children. The fabric didn't include two of the heroes from the movie : the female characters, Honey Lemon and GoGo. Springs Creative responded that the company has found that boys don't want girl characters.
This is week three of an ongoing series : A Catholic Reads the Bible. Read week one and week two. When I started this project, my brother texted me, ``Wait until you get to Lot. '' By Sunday afternoon, I understood what he meant. I am horrified by the story of Lot.
Mark Goodacre is a professor of New Testament and Christian origins at Duke University. He was series adviser and one of many on-camera experts on CNN's ``Finding Jesus'' Viewers were invited to tweet and post their questions on the'' finding Jesus'' Facebook page.
Joel Burger and Ashley King met in kindergarten and grew up together in New Berlin, Illinois. In fifth grade, classmates were asked to stand as student council representatives. Burger, now 24, and King, 23, became friends by high school, then dated in college.
Vijay Chokal-Ingam is pitching a book about his experiences as a ``hard-partying college frat boy'' He says he posed as a black man years ago to get into medical school. He says the experience opened his eyes to the hypocrisy of affirmative action.
Dawn Milosky, 45, of Beachwood, New Jersey, was airlifted to Morristown Medical Center. She's been charged with driving while intoxicated and reckless driving. Kinnelon Police Officers Mark Ehrenburg and Ricky Ferriola cut the seat belt.
On the 2008 campaign trail, Obama promised to use the word ``genocide'' to describe the 1915 massacre by Turks of Armenians. But that was then. Now, as was the case with Bush, Obama regards Turkey as a more crucial ally than Armenia. Turkey denies this history.
Vote on the first story I'll report for the ``2 degrees'' series. Tell CNN's John Sutter which of these climate change stories you like best. The poll closes Monday, April 27, at 5 pm ET. We'll continue to explore the importance of this number together.
Ohio Gov. John Kasich : America needs a leader who believes in a common set of fundamental values. He says the leadership style that helped Ohio turn around is needed in Washington. Kasich : Great leaders are not primarily guided by polls, political parties, focus groups, re-election.
Julian Zelizer : It's hard to imagine the conversations inside the Hillary Clinton camp prelaunch. He says it's hard -- almost impossible -- to soft-launch a campaign with a superstar politician. Zelizer says Hillary Clinton is trying to escape the inescapable reality.
A new CNN/ORC poll finds 57 % feel businesses such as caterers or florists should be required to serve gay or lesbian couples. That's a shift from a Pew Research Center poll conducted last fall, which found just 49 % thought businesses ought to be required.
Nine of ten mostly foreign prisoners on death row in Indonesia have been given 72 hours notice ahead of their execution. A lawyer acting for Philippines maid Mary Jane Veloso says her execution will take place on Tuesday, April 28. On Friday, Indonesian officials advised relevant consular officials to travel to Indonesia's ``execution island''
Christine Baranski and Laurie Metcalf are back on ``The Big Bang Theory'' ``Saturday Night Live'' will host Scarlett Johannsson the day after her ``Avengers'' movie opens. ``Blue Bloods'' concludes its two-part season finale this week.
Dr. Kristen Lindsey allegedly shot an arrow into the back of an orange tabby's head. She posted a proud photo of herself smiling, as she dangled its limp body by the arrow's shaft. The clinic fired Lindsey, covered her name on its marquee with duct tape.
As many as 50 people in all were rescued from the water, the Coast Guard says. Five people were initially reported missing, but one of them has since been rescued. The Fairhope Yacht Club sponsors the Dauphin Island Race, according to its website.
``I could hardly breathe, but I could stay until the avalanche was over,'' a climber says. ``We're going to get these guys down the hill,'' says Jon Reiter, an American mountaineer at the base camp. Aftershocks continue to send snow and rocks down the mountainside.
Kenny Bayless has been named as the referee of the May 2 fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao. The Nevada State Athletic Commission said Bayless would take charge of the most anticipated bout in recent boxing history. The cheapest tickets for the bout are priced at $ 1,500 but some seats could fetch as much as $ 11,000 on the secondary market.
St. Louis police have charged Ronald Williams, 21, with assault. A 15-year-old has also been arrested, according to authorities. The beating, which occurred on a MetroLink light rail train, was caught on surveillance cameras and a passenger's cell phone camera.
There's no way to get out of Kathmandu. Temporary shelters have been put up, but very few -- 16 -- by the government. There's very little power in the city -- no power to speak of. Food will become the biggest concern in the coming days.
Jon ``Bones'' Jones is the reigning UFC light heavyweight champion. He is wanted for ``his possible involvement in a hit-and-run accident,'' police say. A pregnant woman in her 20s suffered minor injuries in the crash. Jones is scheduled to fight Anthony Johnson in UFC 187 in May.
In rural China, hiring exotic dancers to perform at wakes is an increasingly common practice. China's Ministry of Culture issued a statement Thursday announcing a crackdown on these funeral stripteases. The dancers in the two cases were held in ``administrative detention,'' the report added.
``No punishment could ever be equal to the terrible effects of this crime on the survivors and the victims' families,'' attorney says. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, was convicted this month of all 30 counts against him. 17 of those counts carry the death penalty.
For 25 years, Ali Addeh refugee camp has been a holding point for those fleeing into Djibouti. For the camp's 10,000 residents, who mostly come from these countries, this is supposed to be just the first stop on their journey to resettlement.
``There are no words to do justice to the disappointment and heartbreak we are going through,'' his wife says. The U.S. government will conduct an independent investigation of the circumstances, she says. Weinstein was abducted in 2011 from his home in Lahore, Parkistan.
A Save the Children spokesman says a ship carrying 550 people capsized off the Libyan coast. The Italian coast guard says it can not confirm such an incident. There has been a recent upsurge in migrant boats crossing the Mediterranean. Italy registered more than 10,000 migrants arriving in first three months of 2015.
Kathmandu, Nepal, was hit by the worst earthquake this country has experienced in 80 years. The death toll has skipped past 3,000 and climbs, inexorably. Families sit, camped out, silent and patiently waiting, but for now abandoned.
On July 20, 2012, a gunman opened fire at a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado. Twelve people were killed and 70 were injured. Shooter James Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. CNN spoke with several people whose lives were changed because of the shooting.
No one was injured in the shooting, and no arrests have been made. Police are still looking for suspects. Lil Wayne was in Atlanta for a performance at Compound nightclub Saturday night. Witnesses provided a limited description of two vehicles suspected to be involved : a ``Corvette style vehicle''
Within hours of the first 7.8 magnitude quake, India began planning a massive cross-border aid mission. On Sunday alone, India delivered 187 tons of supplies, including 50 tons of water, 22 tons of food and 2 tons of medicine. It all highlights the more proactive role taken by India in recent months.
``I want them all to go back home,'' says Rev. Jamal Bryant. ``For us to come out of the burial and walk into this is absolutely inexcusable,'' he says. ``I wish I had more parents that took charge of their kids,'' police commissioner says.
The woman smacks her son in the head repeatedly. She follows him, screaming, ``Get the f -- over here !'' Eventually, he turns toward her, his face no longer covered. Police commissioner : ``I wish I had more parents that took charge of their kids''
A professor at Texas A&M Galveston says he will fail his entire class. Irwin Horwitz says he has seen cheating, inappropriate conduct. He says students spread hurtful rumors about him, his wife and colleagues. University officials say the department head will take over teaching the class.
Arthur Baldwin, 29, was arrested at a woman's residence in Southeast Washington. He has been placed on administrative leave and his security clearance has been suspended. The U.S. Attorney's Office said the charge of attempted burglary carries a sentence of up to five years in prison.
Up to 200 people are feared missing after a landslide in a trekking area north of Kathmandu. The death toll has now climbed above 4,600 in Nepal, officials say. Rescue efforts are hampered by problems of getting aid into the country and then delivering it.
The main highway out of Kathmandu shows massive cracks, the tarmac torn apart by the force of Saturday's huge tremor. In Ravi Opi a village official walks quickly by, telling us over his shoulder that 90 % of the houses are currently uninhabitable.
Nigerian troops rescued 200 girls and 93 women Tuesday in the Sambisa Forest. The armed forces could not immediately confirm if any of the rescued girls were among the 200 schoolgirls kidnapped in April 2014. Boko Haram, a militant Islamist group, has been kidnapping females for years.
The Nepali Pranksters were in the middle of shooting an episode for their hidden camera series. The team kept the camera rolling as they moved through the crowded streets. They found homes destroyed, where people were pulling survivors out from piles of rubble. They continued filming as they made their way to the historic Dharahara tower.
South Korea's Prime Minister Lee Wan-koo offers to resign amid a growing political scandal. Lee will stay in his official role until South Korean President Park Geun-hye accepts his resignation. Lee and seven other politicians with links to the President are under investigation.
Robert Downey Jr. walked out of an interview with British journalist Krishnan Guru-Murthy. Peter Bergen : Downey seemed to misunderstand that the interview format gives journalists the right to ask questions. He says Downey may be understandably tired of answering questions about his past, but his business is our business.
Four-month-old Sonit Awal was buried in the rubble of his home when the earthquake struck on Saturday. His father frantically searched for him for 22 hours before the Nepalese Army rescued him. The baby was taken to hospital and found to be uninjured.
Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont could make an announcement within days. Ohio Gov. John Kasich is more visible of late, and makes no secret of the fact that he thinks he is the most qualified among the potential Republican 2016 presidential prospects. The GOP establishment is putting a priority on candidate recruitment.
The 10 were arrested in Swat, a district of Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. Malala Yousafzai was shot as she was traveling home on a school bus in 2012. She survived and went on to become an even more vocal activist.
Helicopter drops off food, medicine and tents in Melamchi, central Nepal. It is the third mission of its kind to reach the village since Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake. More than 5,000 people were killed in the quake.
Thousands remain missing in Nepal after a devastating earthquake struck the region on Saturday. Technology has played a huge role in helping families share their worries, ask for help and search for their missing loved ones. The death toll in Nepal is rising ; it has now surpassed more than 5,000.
Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran were executed in Indonesia on Wednesday. Their deaths will result in short to medium term frictions between Canberra and Jakarta. But the Australian public's view of Indonesia, and anger with its government, will take much longer to subside.
Many Australians are appalled by the brutal and pointless executions of Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran. The death penalty looks anachronistic and ineffective at the best of times. Indonesia's actions raise more general questions about the powers we give to states. We can give no more significant power to another human being than to decide who lives.
Baltimore police hand over files on Freddie Gray's death to prosecutors. No reports will be made public, police commissioner says. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake dances around the question of whether answers will be forthcoming. She says she doesn't want to ``seek justice for optics''
A man and a woman have been arrested on suspicion of planning a Boston-style attack. The suspected target, according to Florian Flade, the terrorism researcher, was a bike race. Flade says the couple had ties to radical Islamist circles in the Frankfurt area.
A 15-year-old boy is pulled from the rubble of a building in Kathmandu. A U.S. team rescues 30 people, including three Americans, from an area of Nepal called Bamboo Village. At least 6,134 people have been killed in the quake.
Marilyn Mosby is Baltimore City State's Attorney. She is the youngest chief prosecutor of any major city in the U.S. Mosby, 35, comes from a long line of police officers, including her grandfather, four uncles and her mother. ``She's a strong woman,'' her husband says.
Kim Bok-dong spent five years as a sex slave of the Japanese army, from 1940 onwards. She is determined to share her story with anyone who will listen, until she's no longer physically able. ``My only wish is to set the record straight about the past before I die,'' Kim says.
A dozen Native American actors walk off the set of ``The Ridiculous Six'' They say the satirical Western's script is insulting to Native Americans and women. The movie was co-written by Sandler and is being directed by his frequent collaborator. Netflix defends the movie as satire.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is scheduled to speak Wednesday to a joint meeting of Congress. Peter Bergen : Abe arrives in Washington at an opportune time to help along the economic centerpiece of the ``pivot'' The Trans-Pacific Partnership Free Trade Agreement, or TPP, is a potentially massive free trade agreement.
A group of fighters in Afghanistan agreed to be filmed by a CNN cameraman parading their ISIS flags. They are the first images of their kind shot by western media inside Afghanistan. The rise of ISIS is an issue that the Afghan President, Ashraf Ghani, has termed a ``terrible threat''
Les Moonves is the president and CEO of CBS Corp., which includes Showtime. His waiter, Gabriel Salvador, offered Moonves an ``in'' to the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight. Salvador is an actor who has appeared in ``Bones'' and ``Blue Bloods''
``I'm not comfortable with it,'' Fulton County Superior Court Judge Jerry Baxter says of earlier sentences. Baxter had come under fire from some community leaders for giving prison sentences to eight teachers and administrators. They'd been accused of taking part in an effort to raise tests scores at struggling schools.
Olivia Munn will play the telepathic Psylocke in ``X-Men : Apocalypse'' ``Newsroom'' actress will play Betsy Braddock in the movie. ``Apocalypse'' is currently in production for a summer 2016 release. James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender and Jennifer Lawrence also star.
The change is being made to ensure ``accountability, professionalism and transparency,'' IMPD says. The new color will be worn by majors, district commanders, deputy chiefs, assistant chiefs and the chief of police. IMPD officials acknowledge that this is a time of ``increased scrutiny of police operations''
A wave of anti-immigrant violence has swept South Africa in recent days, leaving several dead. CNN spoke to several immigrants living and working in South Africa about the crisis. ``I'm scared to go to town because I do not know when these people can attack,'' one says.
Photographer Laurence Rasti traveled to Denizli, Turkey, to photograph gay and lesbian refugees from Iran. Homosexuality is illegal in Iran, and some have been pressured to undergo gender reassignment. Despite their status, the refugees are still full of hope and love despite their rough lives.
``Avengers'' star Jeremy Renner sings Ed Sheeran parodies. He also shows off his other talents. Renner has starred in several films, including ``The Hurt Locker,'' ``American Hustle : and films in the ``Mission Impossible'' franchises.
Former rap mogul Marion ``Suge'' Knight pleads not guilty to murder and other charges. He is accused of running over two men during an argument in January in Compton, California. The incident occurred after a flare-up on the set of ``Straight Outta Compton''
The nominations for the 69th Annual Tony Awards were announced Tuesday morning. Bruce Willis is set to make his Broadway debut in the upcoming play ``Misery'' The awards are set to be handed out June 7 in a ceremony airing live at 8 p.m. on CBS.
Jared Leto plays the Joker in the upcoming movie ``Suicide Squad'' The actor put on white makeup and a lot of tattoos to portray the Clown Prince of Crime. Twitter users got their first look at Leto in character Friday. The memes started almost immediately.
Rapper/entrepreneur Jay Z took to Twitter to defend his new music streaming service, Tidal. He attempted to refute talk that the company has been doing a less than stellar job in taking on Spotify. He launched the subscription-based music service last month.
Universal announced Thursday that the sequel to the box office blockbuster will hit theaters on Feb. 10, 2017. The news came one day after The Hollywood Reporter reported exclusively that the husband of EL James, author of the ``Fifty Shades'' trilogy, will write the script.
Sandra Bullock has been named the world's most beautiful woman. The 50-year-old actress calls the honor ``ridiculous'' She says she's happy with who she is. Gabrielle Union, Ariana Grande and Laverne Cox also make the cut.
Stephen Hawking has teamed up with Monty Python for a new song. The song, ``Galaxy Song,'' is from their 1983 film ``The Meaning of Life'' The 7-inch single will be available for sale on Record Store Day. It's not Hawking's first music gig.
The sentencing phase of the federal case will resume Monday. Dzhokhar ``Jahar'' Tsarnaev was convicted April 8 on all 30 counts, including 17 that carry a possible death penalty. His defense team is seeking to spare him from a death sentence for his part in the Boston bombings.
William and Kate are expected to give birth to their second child in the coming weeks. The Duchess of Cambridge and her husband are expecting a girl. The name Diana has become a popular choice among punters in the U.S. and UK. Diana's name conjures up both positive and negative responses.
As the Great Kate Wait of 2015 drags on, bets on the arrival of a new baby a girl continue to be placed. As of today, 70 % of those laying down their hard earned cash are convinced the world is on the verge of welcoming a new princess.
Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard's Quds Force is already training, advising and supporting Iraqi Shia militias in their fight against ISIS. The U.S., which is leading the air campaign against ISIS in Iraq, has denied any direct coordination with Iran. Iranians believe air strikes against ISIS are not effective.
Linda Thompson says she would not have married Bruce Jenner if she had known about his ``gender issue'' The two met in 1979 at a celebrity tennis tournament at the Playboy Mansion. The two married on January 5, 1981, and made Hawaii their home. They had two sons, Kendall and Kylie.
Julian Zelizer : Bernie Sanders is a long shot to win the presidency. He says Sanders is an authentic voice who speaks without fear. Zelizer says Sanders has been one of only a few voices in the Senate who has consistently pointed out extreme right-wing factions.
LZ Granderson : The Miami riots of 1980 were the first major ``race riots'' since the 1960s. LZ : The immediate catalysts for the waves of riots were police action, or, more specifically, perceived unjust police action. He says youths were the key to the civil rights movement ; they propelled the movement into the national spotlight.
Julian Zelizer : With Congress gridlocked, it's time for liberals to look local. He says in New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio has launched an ambitious pre-K education program. In New Orleans, the mayor has put together a generous housing program, he says. Zelizer says the drive for same-sex marriage equality took hold in the states.
Nepal's capital, Kathmandu, was rocked by a magnitude 7.8 earthquake on Tuesday. The quake was followed by a series of aftershocks that have continued to strike the city. Survivors have gathered wherever they can find open space to gather. The city is still reeling from the quake.
Fabien Le Coq's photo series ``Treesome'' is an embodiment of his unique way of interacting with the world around him. The series, shot between 2012 and 2014, reflects the photographer's travels through his native France and countries in Central America and Asia. Each image represents different feelings at different points in time.
Domestic terror threats range from white supremacists to eco-terrorists to anti-government extremists. Cheri Laverne Dalton is wanted for her alleged involvement in the Brinks Armored Car robbery. Tupac Shakur's stepfather is considered by authorities to be the mastermind behind the robbery.
Mui Thomas was born with Harlequin ichthyosis, which means her skin is extremely thick, dry and flaky -- resembling fish scales. The 22-year-old has a full-time job, plays sport and is embarking on a career as public speaker.
Hundreds of decomposed corpses were discovered buried in shallow graves in the streets of Damasak. The town had recently been freed from the Boko Haram terror group in a joint Nigerian-Chadian military operation. The victims included men, women and children murdered by Boko Haram.
April 27 is celebrated as Freedom Day in South Africa. The day is widely seen as marking the start of a free South Africa after the fall of apartheid. Using the #FreedomDay hashtag, people across the country and beyond took to Twitter to celebrate this year's event.
Gen. Khalifa Haftar says Libyan authorities had not been consulted. ``We will certainly not cooperate, because we were not involved in resolving this issue,'' he says. EU leaders are considering a plan that would involve military action against people smugglers. Many of the travelers are fleeing violence and poverty in Libya.
Prosecutor Javier de Luca dismisses allegations that President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner tried to cover up Iran's involvement in a 1994 bombing. The original prosecutor who brought the allegations was found dead in January. His death sparked outrage and conspiracy theories aplenty.
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, was once known as the murder capital of the world. At the height of cartel violence, the city averaged 8.5 killings per day. Now, officials say the city is much safer, and plans are underway to lure foreign tourists.
Shinzo Abe missed a great opportunity to dispel tensions with his revisionist views on history. Abe has been evasive and ambiguous about embracing responsibility for Japan's wartime actions. This ``Abenesia'' is harmful to Japan's international image, riles China and South Korea.
The spacecraft will re-enter the Earth's atmosphere in about a week, Roscosmos says. The Progress resupply vehicle will come off its orbit and will begin its combustion between May 5 and May 7. The ship is now spinning out of control, NASA says.
13,000 personnel from 14 countries operating more than 50 ships and submarines. NATO says the planning started long before Russia began behaving as an adversary. CNN was invited to spend a day aboard one of the vessels taking part -- the U.S. Navy's guided missile cruiser USS Vicksburg.
Airstrikes were carried out in the occupied Golan Heights. The Golan is regarded internationally as occupied territory despite Israeli governmental control. Israel seized the territory from Syria during the 1967 Israel-Arab war, and it was eventually annexed. Three of the alleged attackers were killed.
Jean Nidetch started Weight Watchers with a group of friends in 1961. She lost 72 pounds and inspired millions more to shed pounds too. ``It's choice -- not chance -- that determines your destiny,'' she said. Nidetch died Wednesday at her home in Florida.
5-year-old Doberman ate watch heads, leather straps and metal pieces. Owner : ``It just looked like a Christmas tree and I almost threw up'' Mocha had to have emergency stomach surgery last summer after plastic perforated her intestine. Her breeder wondered if the dog was acting out of anxiety.
Mary Doyle Keefe was the model for Norman Rockwell's ``Rosie the Riveter'' Keefe, 92, died this week at her home in Simsbury, Connecticut. As a 19-year-old telephone operator, she posed for the famous painting.
Anamarie Shreeves, 26, lives what some may consider an atypical lifestyle. She creates almost no waste. The small amount of waste she does create goes straight into a 32-ounce mason jar. She composts, makes her own shampoo and toothpaste.
A Singapore high school student gives her friends a list of 10 possible birthday dates. She doesn't want to share her birthday with her friends right away. The problem went viral after Singapore television host Kenneth Kong posted it to Facebook. Georgia Tech Mathematician Matt Baker has the answer.
``Strong is the New Pretty'' is a series of photos by photographer Kate Parker. The photos show Parker's daughters as they are -- freckled, muddy, screaming, laughing. Parker hopes the project inspires parents to find their own creative ways to capture their children's lives.
Chief Justice John Roberts faces a judicial crossroads in a historic case. The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments Tuesday in a case that could decide whether gay and lesbian couples have the constitutional right to marry. Roberts shocked conservatives nearly three years ago by providing a pivotal vote to uphold Obamacare.
Geophysicists have long monitored how fast the Earth's plates are moving. Over millions of years, the squeezing has crushed the Himalayas like a concertina. In the 81 years since the 1934 Bihar earthquake, the land mass of India has been pushed into Nepal.
Ben Powers played Keith Anderson on the final season of ``Good Times'' He also had a regular role as ``Moochie'' on the CBS detective drama show. Powers died April 6 in New Bedford, Mass., his family announced. No cause of death was revealed.
Adult coloring books are on the rise. They're marketed to stressed-out, work-addled adults. The trend may have something to do with online access and the desire to unplug. Mindfulness and meditative coloring are recurring themes in the growing adult coloring books.
Heavy drinking among Americans rose 17.2 percent between 2005 and 2012. Binge drinking is defined as four or more drinks for women and five for men. In Santa Clara County, Calif., women's binge drinking rates rose by nearly 36 percent. About 88,600 U.S. deaths were attributed to alcohol in 2010.
Cassandra C., 17, was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma in September. She ran away in an effort to discontinue chemo, claiming she did not want to be treated. A judge ordered her into custody of the Connecticut Department of Children and Families in December.
Jordan Spieth demonstrated optimal movement in two key areas that enhance swing power and fluid control. Spieth did it while maintaining a stable low back and integrated core strength as the foundation for expressing his swing mobility. Try these three yoga-based moves with your PGA clients.
Roseanne Barr said she suffers from macular degeneration and glaucoma. The actress said smoking marijuana is ``good medicine'' for relieving the pressure in her eyes. Doctors have not given Barr a definitive timeline on when she can expect to lose all visibility.
acetaminophen is the main ingredient in Tylenol, most forms of Midol and more than 600 other medicines. Study : Acetaminophen can be seen as an all-purpose emotion reliever. Researchers tested their thesis by showing 82 college students 40 photographs.
Roseanne Barr revealed earlier this week that she is going blind. She has macular degeneration and glaucoma, two eye diseases that get worse over time. There is no cure for either disease, but there are treatments that may delay the progression of early-stage glau coma.
Hawaii is poised to become the first state in the nation to prohibit the sale of cigarettes. The state's legislature on Friday passed a bill raising the minimum legal age to buy tobacco. The bill will now go before Gov. David Ige, whose signature would make it law.
As of Friday, 142 people have tested positive for HIV in Scott and Jackson counties. This is a huge number of cases for an area that has a population of only a few thousand people. The outbreak has been ongoing since mid-December. Indiana University has sent health volunteers to provide a clinic.
The latest outbreak of bird flu is not a likely threat to humans, reports the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 16 states have seen bird flu turn up in commercial poultry, backyard chickens, and in flocks of wild and captive wild birds. The virus does not spread through people eating chickens or eggs.
Many of Nepal's most renowned pagodas in and around Kathmandu crumbled into rubble-covered stumps. The worst architectural losses have included the Shiva temple pagoda and its twin, the Narayan temple Pagoda. But the KathmandU Valley's other pagoda, stupas and shrines suffered surprisingly little damage.
Susie Clark found a 3.69-carat diamond at Crater of Diamonds State Park in Arkansas. It's the 122nd diamond found at the state park this year. Visitors get to keep what they find at the 37.5-acre search field.
LZ Granderson : Some blame President Obama for racial tension in America. He says it's more convenient to say the violence began when rioters threw bricks at police. LZ : We criticize Baltimore's mayor for not ``restoring order'' as if paying victims is ``order''
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was expected to visit Moscow next week to mark 70th anniversary of end of World War II. Russia announced this week that the trip had been canceled, citing ``North Korean domestic affairs'' Kim may not be feeling completely secure in his position, says Frida Ghitis.
Photographer Ken Hermann visited Malik Ghat in Kolkata, India, for his project ``Flower Man'' The wholesale flower market attracts more than 2,000 sellers each day. None of the female sellers wished to be a part of Hermann's project.
Lewis Hamilton wins Chinese Grand Prix for Mercedes. Reigning world champion claims his 35th grand prix win. Nico Rosberg finishes second to renew rivalry with Hamilton. Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel finishes third for his third straight podium finish in 2015. The Bahrain Grand Prix takes place on Sunday.
Texas A&M professor Irwin Horwitz threatened to fail his entire class. He accused them of ``backstabbing, game playing, cheating, lying, fighting'' The story went viral, and Horwitz was thrust into a spotlight. He stands by his tough stance, but he is afraid the notoriety will cost him his job.
Aiko Chihira is an android manufactured by Toshiba, designed to look and move like a real person. Japan has an aging population that has prompted serious talks about how to incorporate robots into the nation's shrinking workforce. One group that seems willing to embrace robots are Japan's senior citizens.
Joni Mitchell was taken to a hospital a month ago after being found unconscious in her home. A longtime friend has filed a legal petition seeking to be named the singer-songwriter's conservator. Whether the folk and jazz singer is conscious remains a matter of confusion.
Richard Dysart died of cancer at his home in Santa Monica, California, his wife says. Dysart gained fame playing law firm leader Leland McKenzie on ``L.A. Law'' He won a Drama Desk award for playing coach in Jason Miller's ``That Championship Season''
E! will air a new documentary series about Bruce Jenner's transition. The eight-part, one-hour series is set to premiere July 26. Jenner recently went public with the fact that he is transgender. The former Olympian has six biological kids with former wives.
The term appears to be a reference to 2013's ``The Purge'' and its sequel. The movies show a dystopian future America where on one day each year, all laws are suspended. In the movies, set in Los Angeles, people barricade themselves in their homes at night.
Nepalese and international medical teams are treating the injured in Gorkha. Many of the damaged villages are not accessible by roads. To fly to most remote places from Gorkha takes about 30 minutes, five days on foot. The Swiss Humanitarian Aid Unit is followed by 26 International Search and Rescue members.
David Rothkopf : President Obama refuses to look with clear eyes at chief security challenges. He says results of Obama's efforts to make the world a better place can be accounted for. Rothkapf : The body count will continue to grow in places where these groups can generate buy-in.
Tanka Maya Sitoula, 40, was trapped for 36 hours in the rubble of her Kathmandu home. She was freed by an Indian rescue team, apparently protected by a beam. The mother-of-four says she was confident she would be rescued.
Freddie Gray was arrested by Baltimore police on the morning of April 12. Less than an hour after he was detained, officers transporting him called for a medic. He subsequently slipped into a coma, dying a week after his initial arrest. The events surrounding Gray's encounter with police remain unclear.
Gloria Borger : Corinthian Colleges' decision to shut down is a positive development. She says we can't afford to continue funding for-profit colleges, which get 86 % of their funding from federal student loan money. Borger says the average graduate of an online for-profits makes less than a high school dropout.
Cecily Strong of ``Saturday Night Live'' hosted the White House Correspondents' dinner. David Bianculli : It's hard not to think of this particular Beltway-meets-showbiz event as a wonderfully American exercise in tolerance and good humor.
Peter Schweizer's new book, ``Clinton Cash,'' will be released May 5. Peter Bergen says the book will raise questions about conflicts of interest. He says the Clinton Foundation took money from companies and governments that were clearly trying to curry favor. Bergen : Until there's a clear exchange of money for favors, it's hard to be outraged.
Miami police set up a hidden camera inside a plane to catch baggage handlers stealing valuables. A CNN analysis of passenger property loss claims from 2010 to 2014 shows 30,621 claims. John F. Kennedy International Airport topped the list of airports with the most claims.
Kremlin spokesman : ``The decision is connected with North Korean domestic affairs'' The visit was highly anticipated because it would have marked Kim's first official foreign trip. He was to have met with Russian President Vladimir Putin as part of the May visit to coincide with Victory Day.
Christopher Scarver was sentenced to two life terms in prison for killing Jeffrey Dahmer. He says Dahmer would leave fake limbs around the prison where others would find them. Dahmer's former prison minister says the convict would make jokes about this cannibalistic past. ``This was just his way -- a morbid humor to deal with his hopeless situation''
Volvo says it will begin exporting vehicles made in a factory in southwest China to the United States next month. CEO Håkan Samuelsson said Volvo planned to sell 1,500 Chinese-made S60 Inscription sedans in 2015 and 5,000 annually in subsequent years.
Shanghai, like many large Chinese cities, rations license plates as it looks for a solution to its gridlocked roads and polluted skies. To register for a license plate auction, prospective car buyers like Li must put down a deposit in exchange for disc containing software.
``There is still smoke on and off, but nothing so dramatic -LRB- as before -RRB-,'' a resident says. The explosion produced an extensive plume, but it was also described as smaller than the two prior ones. About 1,500 people were evacuated, and security measures will continue. The first eruption set off a bit of panic in the region.
Venezuelan native Maickel Melamed is battling muscular dystrophy. The 39-year-old completed the 26.2 miles just before 5 a.m. Tuesday. He was the last participant to complete the race, CNN affiliate WCVB-TV reports.
Waze uses GPS navigation and crowdsourcing to alert users to traffic jams, accidents, stalled cars. In the days before he assassinated New York police officers, Ismaaiyl Brinsley is known to have used the Waze application to monitor the movements of police.
Andrew Lesnie won his Oscar for his work on the first of the fabled ``Lord of the Rings'' trilogy, ``The Fellowship of the Ring'' Lesnie also worked with New Zealander Peter Jackson on the remake of ``King Kong'' and ``The Lovely Bones''
Lois Lilienstein, co-star of ``Sharon, Lois & Bram's Elephant Show,'' has died. The Canadian preschool show ran on Nickelodeon during the early 1990s. She died in Toronto on Wednesday from a rare form of cancer, her son said.
Johnny Kemp is believed to have drowned at a beach in Montego Bay on Thursday. ``Just Got Paid'' was a No. 1 hit on the U.S. Billboard R&B chart. Kemp was scheduled to perform on the Tom Joyner Foundation Fantastic Voyage Cruise.
``When a Man Loves a Woman'' became a cornerstone of soul music. Percy Sledge was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2005. He had been in hospice care for cancer, the East Baton Rouge Parish Coroner's Office says.
Silas was the middle name of Timberlake's maternal grandfather Bill Bomar, who died in 2012. Randall is the musician's own middle name, as well as his father's first. The couple announced the pregnancy in January. It is the first baby for both.
Lifetime has greenlit ``The Unauthorized Full House Story'' The cable network will follow up its ``Unauthorized Saved By the Bell'' movie. The ``Full House'' tell-all will look at the rise of the cast. Casting will begin immediately.
``Avengers : Age of Ultron'' picks up where ``Captain America : Winter Soldier'' left off. Director Joss Whedon mixes some brooding down-time in with the abundant spectacle. But at least two of the big action scenes are lackluster, says Tom Charity.
``Furious 7'' is the seventh installment of the ``Fast and Furious'' franchise. The film is dedicated to co-star Paul Walker, who died in a car accident in 2013. Here's what the critics are saying about the film. The latest film opens Friday.
Keegan is followed by Kendall Jenner, Jennifer Lawrence and Kate Upton. Sandra Bullock doesn't appear anywhere on FHM's list. The ``FHM 100 Sexiest Women in the World'' issue goes on sale Thursday, April 30. The 27-year-old actress is best known for her roles on the BBC series ``Ordinary Lies''
The USS Independence was scuttled in 1951 during weapons testing near California's Farallon Islands. It survived a Japanese torpedo strike and was a massive guinea pig for two atomic bomb blasts. NOAA researchers surveyed the wreck last month with an underwater drone. The ship sits upright with a slight list to starboard, NOAA says.
Consumer Reports analyzed 70 million passenger trips over the past two years. Southwest Airlines offered the most award tickets, 11.9 million. JetBlue offered the lowest percentage of award seats and the fewest number of award tickets. Southwest had the highest customer satisfaction score -LRB- 86 -RRB-
Loretta Lynch is the new attorney general of the U.S. David Rothkopf : Her first job is to create a muscular federal response to unrest. He says she must crack down on police abuse by using one of its most potent weapons : federal funds. RothkOPf : She should invoke the power where necessary and calm cities like Baltimore.
Alondra Luna Nuñez, 14, was taken from her middle school in Guanajuato, Mexico. She was believed to be the daughter of a Mexican national living in Houston. A woman in Houston claimed in 2007 that her daughter had been illegally taken to Mexico.
Frida Ghitis : Supreme Court seems to have increasingly become a place for partisan theatrics. She says the marriage equality arguments seemed even more shaped by politics than the law. Ghitis says the court is increasingly divorced from reason and politics, whipping up America in general.
Koch Industries will remove box on job applications that asks about convictions. Julian Zelizer : ``Ban the box'' doesn't prohibit background checks, it only postpones them. He says it's one item on a menu of fair-chance hiring reforms intended to ensure that job applicants are evaluated on their skills and qualifications first, rather than judged on past mistakes.
Tennis legend Andy Murray marries long-term girlfriend Kim Sears in Dunblane, Scotland. Grand slam and Olympic champion donned a traditional blue and green tartan kilt. His bride dazzled in a vintage-style gown by British designer Jenny Packham.
Four rainbows appeared in the early morning sky on Tuesday in New York. The CEO of a fashion company snapped the lucky shot. She posted the picture to Twitter, and within a few hours, it had already received hundreds of retweets. The video has since garnered over 40 million views.
Gulnaz was raped by her cousin's husband and jailed for adultery. She was pardoned and released courtesy of a presidential pardon. But she was pressured to marry her attacker after her release. She now says she was told by her relatives to make up the allegations.
Kabul is a city swollen in size but shrunken in scope, anxiously awaiting what comes next. Vast supply chains once kept 120,000 troops fed and watered. Now the bases are gone, and the trucks that once supplied millions sit still. The U.S. Embassy and NATO declined to comment for this story.
Photographer Simon Brann Thorpe's project ``Toy Soldiers'' uses soldiers posed as green plastic figurines. The soldiers are with the Polisario Front, an independence movement that has been clashing with Morocco since the mid-1970s. Thorpe hopes his images will raise questions on ``how images of war -LRB- will -RRB- be consumed in the future''
Attorney for Gray's family alleges that police are involved in a cover-up. ``We believe the police are keeping the circumstances of Freddie's death secret,'' attorney says. Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake : ``The questions that many of you have are the same''
``I wasn't there to be recorded. I was there to get my child,'' Toya Graham tells CNN. The single mother of six says she lost control of her emotions when she saw her son with a brick. The 16-year-old boy says his mother didn't want him to get in trouble.
Etan Patz, 6, went missing in 1979 ; his remains have never been found. Pedro Hernandez is charged with second-degree murder in his son's death. His lawyers say he is mentally ill and made up his account of the crime. Etan's disappearance sparked an era of heightened awareness of missing children.
James Holmes is accused of killing 12 people and injuring or maiming 70 others. Opening statements in his trial are scheduled to begin Monday. Holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea. Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty.
Manny Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather's ``Fight of the Century'' won't ``save'' boxing, says Peter Bergen. He says the sport has fallen precipitously since its 20th century heyday. Bergen : Boxing isn't fading away because we've finally awoken to its brutality.
``A mass grave is being created in the Mediterranean Sea,'' Doctors Without Borders president says. A Bangladeshi migrant tells investigators many were trapped inside behind locked doors. The boat capsized after a couple of days at sea, sending hundreds of migrants into the sea. Malta's prime minister calls the tragedy ``genocide''
Japan's space agency announced this week that the country would put an unmanned rover on the surface of the moon by 2018. The move could be seen as Japan's attempt to play catchup to its Asian neighbors China and India, which have both notched significant extraterrestrial victories.
U.S. warships are being deployed to monitor ships traveling from Iran. The ships could be trafficking arms to Houthi rebels in Yemen, officials say. The move was also meant to reassure allies in the region, a Pentagon spokesman says. The heightened tensions could have broader consequences for the relationship with Iran.
Pastor Creflo Dollar responds to critics of his campaign to buy a Gulfstream G650. The Atlanta-area pastor says the devil is trying to discredit him. In March, a video was posted on his ministry's website soliciting money for the jet. A Gulfstream can fly 18 passengers and four crew members.
President Obama says climate change is a public health issue that affects all of us. Obama : ``No challenge poses more of a public threat than climate change'' He says the average American can do their part to reduce their own carbon footprint. Obama did not appear particularly concerned about the current Supreme Court challenge.
Kurdish separatists open fire from a long distance on Turkish soldiers, CNN Turk reports. Four Turkish soldiers also are wounded in the fighting, the military says. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu condemns the violence. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan also harshly condemns the attack.
Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran are awaiting death by firing squad. They are members of the ``Bali Nine'' for their role in a failed 2005 heroin smuggling plot. Lawyers for the pair argued President Joko Widodo had failed to individually consider their cases.
A bus collided with a fuel tanker in southern Morocco, state and local media report. The accident caused a fire that hollowed out the bus, leaving little more than its frame. The dead included athletes traveling for a sporting competition, an eyewitness says. The crash happened near the city of Tan-Tan just before 7 a.m.
Yellowstone's magma reserves are many magnitudes greater than previously thought. Underneath the national park's attractions and walking paths is enough hot rock to fill the Grand Canyon. Most of it is in a newly discovered magma reservoir. An eruption in the next few thousand years is extremely unlikely.
Marleni Olivo writes a message on a mango and tosses it at Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. Maduro is shown lowering his head when he is hit, just above the left ear. He then calmly picks up the mango and holds it up to the crowd. Olivo says she had no evil intent.
Six survivors of the Paris kosher supermarket siege in January are suing a French media outlet. BFMTV is accused of endangering the lives of the hostages by broadcasting their location live. Gunman Amedy Coulibaly stormed the Hyper Cacher Jewish supermarket on January 9.
The helicopter crashed near Kampung Pasir Baru in Semenyih, at 4:55 p.m. Saturday. Among the victims were Azlin Alias, who worked on the prime minister's staff. The helicopter's flight recorder has been found in good condition.
Ben Affleck's great-great-great grandfather was a slave owner in the mid-1800's. Ben Affleck : I didn't want a TV show about my family to include a guy who owned slaves. Frida Ghitis : Who in their right mind would want to be tarnished by the sins of an ancestor you had no connection to other than a remote bloodline ?
Frida Ghitis : U.S. drone strike kills two aid workers held hostage by Al Qaeda. Ghitis says it's no surprise : rogue regimes have long used hostages to extract concessions. She says Iran, North Korea, Syria have all used hostage crises to gain concessions.
The Slants are five Asian-American musicians from Portland, Oregon, who pay homage to the'80s on stage. Peter Bergen : A bureaucrat at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office decided that ``Slant'' was disparaging to Asians.
Sofia Vergara's ex-fiance is speaking out about their dispute over frozen embryos. Nick Loeb says he wants to keep the two female embryos he shares with the actress. Loeb : ``Should we not define them as life, rather than as property ?''
Saudi Arabia began airstrikes on Houthi rebels in Yemen three weeks ago Thursday. But Aden remains a city not fully in the hands of Houthi forces or forces loyal to the ousted government. The Houthis forced President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January.
A ramp agent was discovered inside the front cargo hold. He told authorities he had fallen asleep, Alaska Airlines says. The plane was only in the air for 14 minutes, the airline says. A total of 170 passengers and six crew members were on the flight, Flight 448.
Police identify the suspect as Kenneth Morgan Stancil III, 20. The victim, Ron Lane, was a longtime employee at Wayne Community College. The school was placed on lockdown, and the gunman remains at large. The shooting took place on the third floor of a campus building.
Smugglers lure Arab and African migrants by offering discounts to get onto overcrowded ships if people bring more potential passengers. A smuggler in the Libyan capital of Tripoli laid bare the system for loading boats with poor and desperate refugees. An estimated 1,600 migrants have died so far this year on the dangerous Mediterranean crossing.
Hungarian architect Matyas Gutai has designed a house that uses water to heat and cool. The house is able to reheat itself, when its hot excess heat is stored in the foundations of the building. Gutai is working with factories across Europe on projects using this technology.
The boat, named Airone, was intercepted some 90 kilometers -LRB- 56 miles -RRB- from the Libyan port of Misrata. Italy is a major gateway to Europe for migrants from North Africa. Thousands of people each year make the dangerous sea journey to Europe's Mediterranean coast.
Netflix has ordered up a ``Full House'' reunion special and a spinoff series. Candace Cameron Bure, who played D.J. Tanner in the original series, will star. Jodie Sweetin and Andrea Barber will both return for the new series.
Wednesday's game at Oriole Park at Camden Yards will be closed to the public. It follows the postponements of Monday's and Tuesday's games against the White Sox. A source says the league is not aware of any prior closed-door games in major league history.
Houthi spokesman says talks should resume ``but only after a complete halt of attacks'' Five airstrikes target a weapons depot in Taiz province, security officials say. Houthis release Yemeni Defense Minister Mahmoud al-Subaihi, source says. Saudi-led coalition says it is focusing on political process.
Wisconsin rallies from a 60-56 deficit to beat Kentucky 71-64. The Badgers will play Duke in Monday night's title game. The Blue Devils beat Michigan State 81-61 in the first contest of the night. Duke is looking to win its first title since 1941.
A 54-year-old man carrying a suspicious package scaled a White House fence Sunday night. Jerome R. Hunt, of Hayward, California, climbed the fence on the south side of the White House complex. The package was being examined and later deemed to be harmless.
Baltimore City Councilman Carl Stokes : ``We don't have to call them thugs'' Rev. Jamal Bryant : ``These are not thugs, these are upset and frustrated children'' Mayor Rawlings-Blake : ``I wanted to clarify my comments on `thugs'''
Judge Jeffrey Sutton penned the only recent appellate court decision to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage. His opinion, issued in November, goes up against an avalanche of judicial rulings striking down such bans. It provides important insight into the legal arguments that could be made before the court.
Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini said foreigners ``should pack their bags and go,'' reports say. His office has denied he made the comments, saying journalists misquoted him. This is not the first time xenophobic violence has exploded in South Africa.
Mohamed Mohamud, also known as Dulyadin and Gamadhere, is the mastermind of the attack. Al-Shabaab, an al Qaeda-linked militant group based in Somalia, took responsibility for the attack, U.S. Embassy in Nairobi says.
Freddie Gray was arrested by police on April 12 and died a week later. Peter Bergen : The charging document in this case gives us more information than the now-viral video of the arrest. He says the police are locked into a narrative by their own report.
A U.S. soldier is killed in an attack by an Afghan National Army gunman, an official says. An Afghan soldier was killed and another was injured in a subsequent exchange of gunfire, police say. The incident occurred after an American official met with a provincial governor.
New Belgium and Ben & Jerry's are teaming up on a beer inspired by ice cream. Both companies have a history of social activism, and the new project will be no different, they say. The beer is set to hit shelves in the fall, and details will be announced later this year.
Suzanne Crough played youngest daughter Tracy on the'70s musical sitcom. Tracy played tambourine and percussion in the traveling ``Partridge Family'' band. Crough also starred in the TV series ``Mulligan's Stew'' and had spots on other series.
Bobbi Kristina Brown has ``global and irreversible brain damage,'' her grandmother says. ``We can only trust in God for a miracle at this time,'' Cissy Houston says. The 22-year-old is no longer in a medically induced coma, a source says.
Mercury is the planet closest to the sun in our solar system. NASA's MESSENGER probe is running out of fuel. It will crash onto Mercury on April 30. If you want to see Mercury with your own eyes, you may be in luck if you find an area with dark skies.
Jihadist beheadings may be encouraging copy-cat acts or threats of decapitation, experts say. Arie W. Kruglanski, a psychology professor at the University of Maryland, says it could be psychologically ``priming'' people. A lack of hard data makes it impossible to say conclusively whether such killings are being carried out more often.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has praised the military as peacemakers for the Middle East. The country's top military brass seemed surprisingly relaxed and unusually willing to speak with Western media outlets. But Iran's leadership is showing no sign of toning down its own fiery rhetoric.
Frida Ghitis : Major League Baseball had a problem on its hands in Baltimore. She says the riots of Baltimore, the peaceful marches of Baltimore did not seem to have had much to do with baseball. But after two postponements, the Orioles will play Chicago on Wednesday, but no one else will be invited, she says.
More than 10,000 people have arrived from Libya since last weekend, according to the Italian Coast Guard. Migrants and refugees are making the desperate journey from North Africa to Europe's Mediterranean coast. When Moammar Gadhafi was in control, he controlled the flow of migrant ships.
Mozambican Emmanuel Sithole was attacked by four South Africans in Johannesburg. Photographer James Oatway captured the entire attack on his camera. ``They wanted his blood and nothing was going to stop them from doing that,'' he says. Seven people have been killed in the latest round of xenophobic violence.
At least 10 Iraqi security forces were killed and more than 100 others wounded, official says. Ramadi is the capital of Anbar province, Iraq's Sunni heartland. The extremist group's offensive in Ramadi shows its resilience despite months of U.S. airstrikes.
A white police officer in North Charleston, South Carolina, was charged with murder for shooting an unarmed black man in the back. Frida Ghitis : In this case, there was clear documented evidence of what occurred, and no room for fabrications. She says police use of deadly force is a black and white issue.
Cardiothoracic surgeon and celebrity talk show host Mehmet Oz surfed a wave of criticism to shore. John Oliver eviscerated Oz on his hit HBO show ``Last Week Tonight'' Oz routed his critics by quickly pivoting to the undercurrents of their letter.
Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi is a top leader of the terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba. He is accused of masterminding the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks that left more than 160 people dead. India says Pakistan has a dual policy on dealing with terrorists.
Beatriz Paez was recording police activity in South Gate, California. She says a deputy U.S. marshal grabbed her phone and smashed it with his foot. She filed a complaint with police, but police don't have authority over marshals. Paez is considering a lawsuit.
Muhammadu Buhari, a 72-year-old former general, won Nigeria's presidential election. He ran on an anti-corruption platform, says Femi Kuti. Kuti : Nigeria's poor have been victims of their country's enormous wealth. He says the cancer of corruption has to be cut out.
Scientists say new research seems to support the theory of Martian brines. The study is based on a full year of monitoring of temperature and humidity conditions. The new study doesn't change the picture for life on Mars. But scientists say evidence of water ice at the planet's poles keeps them hoping.
Chinese nuclear experts have told the U.S. that Pyongyang may already have as many as 20 nuclear warheads. Peter Bergen : The key takeaway from the latest assessment of North Korea's nuclear capability is not in the actual number of warheads, but the type of warhead.
Novak Djokovic wins Monte Carlo Masters. Beats Thomas Berdych 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 in rain-interrupted final. Serbian world number one extends winning streak to 17 matches. First man to win opening three Masters tournaments of the season.
More than 160 patients in nine days have been rushed to hospitals for adverse reactions to ``spice'' or ``K2'' ``Spice'' and other similar synthetic drugs are often marketed as legal plant material coated with chemicals that are supposed to mimic the effects of marijuana.
Mohamed Badie is sentenced to death by hanging, along with 13 members of his group. 36 others are sentenced to life in prison on charges of plotting terrorist attacks against state facilities. They were arrested in a sweeping crackdown on supporters of former President Mohamed Morsy.
Frida Ghitis : Incidents of police-involved killings and assaults on unarmed African-Americans are unlikely to end soon. She says police brutality is neither new nor reflective of a ``moment,'' but we have not yet shown resolve to end it. Ghitis says cell phone cameras and social media have allowed average citizens to document police brutality.
Draft script of ``The Breakfast Club'' found in school district where it was filmed. ``It's a first draft of the screenplay by John Hughes,'' superintendent says. The movie was filmed at the Maine North High School building, which is now occupied by the Illinois State Police.
``Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' premiered 40 years ago Thursday. The movie was a box-office hit, making $ 5 million -- more than 10 times its budget. The dialogue alone has been widely quoted, referenced on shows such as ``Game of Thrones''
Amy Schumer took a fake tumble on the red carpet at the TIME 100 gala. Kanye West and Kim Kardashian stepped around her as they moved down the line. The stunt drew guffaws from the paparazzi and other onlookers. It came the same night the third season of ``Inside Amy Schumer'' premiered.
Tuesday, April 14, is Equal Pay Day ; women earn 77 cents for every dollar men earn. Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton should announce she would take a 23 % pay cut if elected president. He says it's a political stunt, but it would send a powerful message about the gender wage gap. Zelizer says such stunts are now part of politics, but they're also effective.
Tuesday is Equal Pay Day, the fictitious holiday marked by progressive women's groups. Peggy Drexler : The 77-cent wage gap statistic is grossly overstated. She says the ``war on women'' narrative hasn't been turned off -- it's simply shifted gears. Drexle : Conservatives need to be ready and willing to respond.
Memphis Grizzlies small forward Jeff Green had to have open heart surgery. He missed the entire 2011-2012 season. Six months after the surgery was the first time he set foot on a court. Green's now using his story to raise awareness of hidden heart risk. He also spends time with children dealing with cardiac issues.
Gao Yu, 71, immediately said she would appeal, her lawyer Mo Shaoping says. The government had accused Gao of disclosing a highly confidential ``Document No. 9'' She was arrested after the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989 and released a year later.
Myopia rates have doubled, even tripled, in most of East Asia over the last 40 years. In South Korea, myopia rates among 20-year-olds have leaped from 18 % in 1955 to over 96 % myopia in 2011. Researchers say reducing risk of myopia is easy : Get some sunlight.
``Hillary Clinton,'''' #Hillary2016,'' and yes, even'' #WhyImNotVotingforHillary'' are trending. There were over 3 million views of her announcment tweets in one hour, and 750,000 Facebook video views so far. Some tweeted their immediate support, with one word : ``Hillary''
``We were running ourselves to save our lives,'' a German climber says. Helicopters bring stranded climbers off the mountain. At least 17 people have been killed, with dozens injured and several missing. The icefall has been deemed impassable at this point.
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has agreed to be interviewed by Swedish prosecutors in London. Assange has been holed up in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London since June 2012. Prosecutors want to question him about 2010 allegations that he raped one woman and sexually molested another. The Australian national denies the claims.
TSA : ``These alleged acts are egregious and intolerable'' The TSA says it has been trying to identify the passenger in the February incident. The TSA said no passengers have come forward with similar cases so far at the Denver airport. Both of the TSA officers investigated have been fired.
A postal carrier from Florida landed a single-person aircraft on Capitol grounds. The aircraft is classified by the FAA as a gyrocopter. Aircraft on instrument flight rule flight plans are not required to comply with restrictions. Noncompliance with the airspace requirements carries some serious federal penalties.
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei says it's too soon to celebrate the proposed deal. ``Everything lies in the details,'' the supreme leader says. President Hassan Rouhani calls for the immediate lifting of sanctions. The United States says the removal of any sanctions will come in phases.
The microneedle patch could bring polio vaccines to the doorsteps of the people that need it. It's been 60 years since a mass inoculation of Jonas Salk's vaccine began with school children. Polio was declared eradicated in the United States in 1979.
``I see the hopelessness.. and the emotions of the people,'' a pastor says. ``We can rebuild. This can not be the legacy of Baltimore,'' he adds. The $ 16 million Mary Harvin Transformation Center was being built in East Baltimore. The cause of the blaze is under investigation.
The proposed training materials were submitted to Manhattan Federal Court judge Analisa Torres on Monday. They include directives to ``not tell or tolerate ethnic, racial or sexist jokes'' They also instruct new cadets ``not to use terms or words that devalue groups of people''
Muna Mansour and her family are among the dozens of Americans caught in the crossfire of warring parties in Yemen. Muna was visiting her sick father in Aden when fighting broke out around her. The State Department said it is too risky to conduct an evacuation of citizens.
Saudi jets began airstrikes in Yemen late last month in the name of ``restoring the legitimate government'' Peter Bergen : Saudi motives in Yemen likely have nothing to do with protecting the country's ``legitimate government'' Saudi goal is simple : Prevent the rise of any popularly supported government in the region that seeks self-determination.
China's biggest auto show opens in Shanghai this week. Vehicle sales in China totaled 23.5 million units last year, almost a third more than in the United States. Intense competition for China's drivers means car manufacturers are increasingly developing vehicles that cater to Chinese preferences.
David Letterman's final ``Late Show'' will air on May 20. Oprah Winfrey, George Clooney and Steve Martin are among the guests. Letterman has been a late-night host for 33 years. Stephen Colbert will take over the show on September 8.
Thailand has lifted martial law, replacing it with a controversial new security order. Critics have expressed alarm at the move, with Human Rights Watch saying it marked the country's ``deepening descent into dictatorship'' Martial law was imposed shortly before Thailand's military seized power last May.
``They got it wrong,'' Aaron Hernandez says as he is transported from the courthouse. ``I didn't do it,'' he tells a source close to the case. Hernandez, 25, was found guilty of first-degree murder in the death of Odin Lloyd. He was also convicted of unlawful possession of a firearm.
LZ Granderson : Baltimore police were blamed for doing too little and too much. He says the ghetto, and he's talking class and not race, was on full display by Monday. LZ : Those who caused destruction on Monday had little, if anything, to do with Freddie Gray protests.
Libyan officials are in a quandary. There is no system in place to send these people home, jail them or let them go. About one-third of the migrants are from Eritrea on the east coast of Africa. The number of migrants who have fled to find refuge in Europe has skyrocketed.
Cell phone video shows a number of men throwing punches and even chairs into crowds of people. Stanchions can be seen flying and being used as weapons in the chaotic scene. The fight took place in the food court area of Resorts World Casino in Queens, New York.
Frida Ghitis : We set Baltimore on fire, brutalized black bodies, turned a funeral into a riot. She says ``we'' is one of the great American words : We the People. We enslaved Africans, cut Reconstruction short and made a mockery of equal citizenship, she says.
``Partner up,'' the Facebook status read. Jae Rockwell, the founder of Women RUN the World, posted this mantra to help us keep ourselves accountable. ``Swimming remains my weakest link. Sometimes I forget that and don't cut myself any slack,'' she says.
Bob Greene : I was a copygirl at the Chicago Daily News in 1945. He says the news of Franklin D. Roosevelt's death struck late in the afternoon. Greene : The Daily News was strictly limited in the hours it could publish. The office was swamped with calls for verification, Greene says.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren says she wants to see a candidate willing to fight for the middle class. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, is something of a political rock star in the eyes of many liberal voters. She wouldn't say which of the slew of declared or yet-to-declare candidates fit that bill.
Hillary Clinton released a low-key video on Sunday announcing her run for president. Clinton often says there's no better time in history to be born female than the present. The challenge for Clinton is laying out a precise campaign vision that connects with all voters, while generating excitement.
Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton is the best-known presidential candidate across both parties. He says for liberals, who believe that government is there to do something, it's this lack of definition that is disconcerting. Zelizer says there are good grounds for a liberal primary challenge to Clinton.
NASA's New Horizons spacecraft has sent back its first color image of Pluto. The probe is nearing the crucial point in its epic voyage of more than 3 billion miles. It is due to make its closest approach to Pluto on July 14. Pluto is 1,400 miles wide, roughly half the width of the continental United States.
Some local businesses in Baltimore are banding together to show their support for the city. ``There was some fear, but it was really mixed in with an overwhelming sense that everyone here needs help,'' co-owner says. Other businesses outside the major protest zones stayed open to be a resource.
Three Zeta Beta Tau members from the University of Florida have been expelled from the group. ``They actually spit on me and my service dog as well, and that's just so disrespectful and it hurts,'' a wounded veteran says. ``People were urinating off the balconies, throwing up in the elevators,'' an organizer says.
Methyl bromide is suspected to have been used improperly several times in the U.S. Virgin Islands. A Delaware family fell gravely ill and suffered seizures ; two brothers, ages 14 and 16, remain in comas. Authorities are trying to track down anyone who stayed at the affected villas.
Frida Ghitis : New wave of violent Islamist groups brandish medieval methods of cruelty. She says there is something very different about the way they treat women. Ghitis says treatment of their female victims plays an important part in their radical strategy. She asks : If it is madness with a method, when it comes to women, is it madness ?
Jamal al-Labani is believed to be the first U.S. citizen killed in the current violence in Yemen. He was hit in the back by shrapnel from a mortar shell, his family says. More than 200 people have been killed in Aden in the past 11 days, official says.
``I think it's going to be a very good visit, very beneficial for the country,'' a Cuban-American says. The Pope will stop in Cuba before his planned stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. He helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two countries.
A&E, Lifetime and History will simulcast a remake of ``Roots'' in 2016. The miniseries is about an African-American slave and his descendants. LeVar Burton, who portrayed Kunta Kinte in the original, will co-executive produce.
ISIS is clearly about religion -- its version of radical Islam -- but it is also about power. ISIS presents itself as a global organization, but it has thrived because of a local cause. The leaders of ISIS have recognized that above all, they are a messaging machine.
Search area for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 looks set to double in size. Teams are scouring the depths of a remote part of the southern Indian Ocean for the remains. So far, they've covered about 60 % of the priority search zone without reporting any trace of the airliner.
In July of 2013, Turkish archaeologists discovered a stone chest in a 1,350-year-old church that appeared to contain a piece of Jesus' cross. The latest episode of the ``true cross,'' a powerful identifier for the faith of more than two billion people, is symbolic of the pitfalls in the hunt for Jesus relics.
The Altamura Man became the oldest Neanderthal to have his DNA extracted by researchers. Scientists in southern Italy have known about him since 1993. Calcite pebbles line the Neanderthal's eye sockets, nose bone and an upper jaw like a hundred decorative piercings.
David Gergen : Supreme Court has always been about more than the intentions of the framers. He says the justices practice politics as much as law, and that will be clearer in same-sex marriage case. Gergen says most of the justices have already made up their minds.
DC Entertainment, Warner Bros. and Mattel announce DC Super Hero Girls. Characters include Wonder Woman, Supergirl, Batgirl, Harley Quinn and Poison Ivy. Initiative is aimed at girls ages 6-12 and will include online content, toys, books and TV specials.
Henry Louis Gates is accused of scrubbing part of a segment in his PBS documentary series. Ben Affleck's concern was that the segment would have aired his family's dirty laundry. Ruben Navarrette : Gates missed an opportunity to provide a window into the importance of slavery's past.
Walter Scott was stopped by Officer Michael Slager for a broken taillight. Slager shot Scott in the back multiple times, then picked up something near Scott's body. North Charleston's police force is about 80 % white, with a population of 47 % black.
Five years after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster, it's time to ask ourselves what has been learned. The BP oil spill's legacy continues to haunt this region like a recurring cancer. The Obama administration has proposed a five-year offshore oil and gas drilling plan.
SpaceX will try to land a rocket on a platform floating in the Atlantic Ocean. The company says the odds of a successful landing are about 50 %. The rocket will carry an uncrewed cargo spacecraft to the International Space Station. This is the sixth SpaceX mission to the station.
Ibrahim al-Rubaish was once held by the U.S. in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He was released as part of Saudi Arabia's program for rehabilitating jihadists. Yemen has been in disarray since Houthi rebels began asserting themselves last year.
James Holmes faces 165 counts, including murder and attempted murder. The prosecution has said it will seek the death penalty. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. Jurors will be asked to consider events that occurred before and after the July 20, 2012, shooting.
CNN's John Defterios traveled to Yemen on a boat ferrying refugees. The boat became an unexpected lifeline for some of the families caught in the fighting. The refugees were being charged $ 300 a person : an ``exit fee'' to leave the country.
``I would have done anything to get to Europe. It was worth the risk, the bad treatment and the fear, hard as that may be to believe,'' he says. ``I would do it again tomorrow if I could -- another journey through a sea where no one is bigger than nature, where prayer works,'' he adds.
John Sutter : I see signs of a revolution everywhere on medical marijuana. He says a majority, 53 %, favor its legalization, with 77 % supporting it for medical purposes. Support for legalization has risen 11 points in the past few years alone, Sutter says. Sutter's documentary, ``Weed 3,'' will show the first federally approved clinical study.
``Sanctions are sanctions,'' Putin says of Western sanctions against Russia. The Russian leader defends lifting a ban on the sale of a sophisticated air defense system to Iran. ``Iran is not a threat to Israel at all,'' he says. Putin's annual exercise is fascinating for ordinary Russians.
A group of 10 doctors emailed a letter to Columbia University expressing disapproval that Oz is on the faculty. They accuse Oz of ``manifesting an egregious lack of integrity'' in his TV and promotional work. Oz says he will address the issue on his show next week.
Blue Bell Creameries recalls all its ice cream, frozen yogurt, sherbet and other frozen treats. 10 people in four states have fallen ill from the bacteria believed to have come from Blue Bell products. The bacteria can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, the elderly.
Toya Graham, the Baltimore mom who pulled her son away from a riot, was hailed as a hero. Frida Ghitis : But wasn't she also promoting violence ? She says what we need are more mothers who will do whatever it takes to protect their children.
Tornadoes touched down near Dallas on Sunday. There have been no reports of deaths. The National Weather Service warned of a large, damaging tornado. Residents reported hail the size of softballs, flipped 18-wheelers and power outages as a front swept through.
Twins drowned after their mother tried to fend off a bee and let go of their stroller. Alexis Keslar was walking with her twin sons, Silas and Eli Keslar, along a canal. The stroller rolled away from her into the canal, with the boys belted in the seat.
The death toll in Nepal now stands at 3,218, a government spokesman says. India has reported 56 deaths, and China another 20. The death toll is expected to climb further as officials get information from the countryside. Residents of Kathmandu are banding together to get by.
A Lamborghini sports car crashes into a guardrail at Walt Disney World Speedway. A 36-year-old passenger is pronounced dead at the scene, Florida Highway Patrol says. The driver is hospitalized with minor injuries. The Exotic Driving Experience bills itself as a chance to drive your dream car.
``It is a good deal, a deal that meets our core objectives,'' U.S. President Barack Obama says. Iran would reduce its stockpile of low-enriched uranium by 98 % and significantly scale back its number of installed centrifuges. In exchange, the United States and the European Union would lift sanctions.
Bobby Drake, aka Iceman of the X-Men, is outed as gay in a new issue. The revelation comes in a storyline involving time travel. The ``X-Men'' series of comics have long been progressive in terms of diversity. The character of Iceman is perhaps best known for his appearances in many of the ``X'' films.
Beijing-backed election proposal tabled in Hong Kong legislature. If approved, Hong Kongers would be able to vote for their next leader in 2017. But candidates would have to be approved by a mostly pro-China committee. Pro-democracy legislators have already sworn to veto.
Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran are among eight drug smugglers executed by firing squad. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott calls the executions ``cruel and unnecessary'' Indonesian President Joko Widodo shrugs off the diplomatic recall, telling reporters that ``our legal sovereignty must be respected''
On April 9, 1865, Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee dramatically surrendered his approximately 28,000 troops to Union General Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Courthouse. President Abraham Lincoln never lost his ardor for the United States to remain united during the Civil War.
A second person is charged with attempting to carry out an ``ISIS-inspired'' terror plot. Five young men were arrested Saturday in Melbourne, Australia, in what police called a major counterterrorism operation. The suspects planned to attack during a major national commemoration in a week, Prime Minister Tony Abbott says.
2015 may be remembered as the year the term ``transgender'' fully entered mainstream consciousness. President Obama condemned the persecution of ``people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender'' ``Transparent,'' about an aging father who begins living as a woman, won two top awards at the Golden Globes.
North Korean defector Lee Min-bok is sending thousands of copies of ``The Interview'' across the border to North Korea in balloons. He is determined his people will see the movie in which the leader Kim Jong Un is assassinated on screen. Lee doesn't know if ordinary North Koreans will watch the movie.
This is week two of an ongoing series : A Catholic Reads the Bible. This week covers the Book of Genesis, chapters 1-11. The Bible I'm reading is ``The Deluxe Catholic Bible,'' published in 1986. After four days of reading, my journal is full of observations and ideas.
Conor McDonnell is the self-taught photography star behind Instagram's most liked photo. The Liverpool native has had a breakneck rise to success since his first Instagram post in November 2011. McDonnell shares his top tips for anyone who wants to grow their Instagram fan base.
The James Webb Space Telescope -LRB- JWST -RRB- will launch in October 2018. It is intended as the successor to the Hubble instrument that has been operating in space for 25 years. The new telescope requires a huge mirror of 25 square meters and a golf ball of gold.
Officer Michael Rapiejko told investigators he thought he was too far to take a shot at the suspect. The Marana, Arizona, officer ran his car into Mario Valencia in February. Valencia survived and faces more than a dozen charges for an alleged crime spree.
Sculptor Jonty Hurwitz is an entrepreneur-turned-artist. His ``Nano-sculptures'' are made from a mysterious resin. They are created through a process called ``two-photon lithography'' Hurwitz : ``I love influencing society''
117 migrants, mostly from sub-Saharan Africa, arrived in the port of Augusta, Sicily, around 1p. m. Tuesday. The group, which included 31 women, was composed mostly of Nigerians and Gambians. They were among nearly 10,000 migrants who have arrived on Italian shores since the weekend.
Czech politician Vit Jedlicka has declared the Free Republic of Liberland. The tiny micronation will be formally founded on May 1. It will use a form of cryptocurrency -- similar to Bitcoin -- as its national currency. The country will keep government's noses out of everything possible.
Sudan is the last known male northern white rhino left in the entire world. He lives at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy in central Kenya. Experts are scrambling to ensure the subspecies does not go extinct. Rhinos are targeted by poachers, fueled by the belief their horns cure ailments.
Fireball has dethroned Jagermeister as America's party shot of choice. Retail sales more than doubled last year, and Fireball has become the sixth-most popular liquor brand. The brand has more than 85,000 followers on Twitter and 43,000 on Instagram.
A suicide bomber detonates his explosives near a group of protesters in eastern Afghanistan. An Afghan lawmaker taking part in the protests was among the 64 people wounded. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid denied his group was responsible for the attack. No other organization has so far claimed responsibility.
The body of a 3-year-old girl was found at a Las Vegas-area hospital, police say. Her mother, a mother of a 4-month-old infant, was arrested in connection with the death. Police are searching for the girls' parents, who may be in California.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev faces life in prison or the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon. The defense and prosecution made closing arguments in the case on Monday. ``The defendant brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets,'' the prosecutor said.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, faces life in prison or the death penalty. He is accused of setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event. On Monday, the jury saw a video of the moment a bomb exploded and disemboweled a boy, 8.
The incident took place early Tuesday in India's southeastern Andhra Pradesh state. Forest officials spotted hundreds of smugglers cutting trees for red sandalwood. The forest officials, who were unarmed, called for police. The ensuing gun battle lasted more than three hours and 20 smugglers were shot.
``I was sickened by what I saw,'' North Charleston police chief says. Protesters call for Mayor Keith Summey to step down. A video shows Officer Michael Slager firing eight shots at 50-year-old Walter Scott. Scott, who was unarmed, was struck five times.
The shootings in Ferguson and North Charleston bear only mild resemblance. There was no bystander video of Michael Brown's death -- no concrete evidence to support or refute different witness claims. The ratio of white and black officers on the North Charleston Police Department appears to more closely mirror that of Ferguson.
John Moynihan, a former Army Ranger, was shot in the face last month. He was placed in a medically induced coma, but is improving, police say. The video shows the shooting that resulted in the killing of the gunman. The officer was honored at the White House for his heroism.
Tulsa County Reserve Deputy Robert Bates, 73, ``inadvertently'' shot Eric Courtney Harris. Harris ran from authorities after trying to sell an illegal handgun during an undercover sting. As deputies tried to handcuff Harris, Bates arrived with a pepper spray gun in hand.
Michael Slager is charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. Scott's death has reignited a national conversation around race and policing. Slager was also named in a police complaint in 2013 after he allegedly ``Tased a man for no reason''
Tulsa County Reserve Deputy Robert Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter. The charge could land him in prison for up to four years if he's found guilty. Video shows Bates announcing he is going to deploy his Taser but then shooting Eric Courtney Harris in the back.
Marana, Arizona, police chief says deadly force was justified. Video shows an officer driving his car into an armed suspect. The suspect, Mario Valencia, survived and was hospitalized before being criminally charged. The footage has stirred debate about what type of force police should have used.
Mobs with machetes attacked immigrants in Durban, leaving at least five people dead. Heavily armed police have scrambled to stop clashes this week. Local residents accused immigrants from other African nations of taking their jobs. The charity Gift of the Givers is helping those seeking refuge.
15 people are arrested on suspicion of murdering the Christians, police say. The original group of 105 people left Libya on Tuesday in a rubber boat. Other people on the voyage told police they were spared ``because they strongly opposed the drowning attempt and formed a human chain,'' police said.
Officer Michael Rapiejko was with the New York Police Department from 2003 to 2006. He was one of the defendants in a suit filed by a man who alleged he was choked. Luis Colon sued two unnamed officers who arrived after the initial confrontation. The suit was settled for $ 20,000.
A 2-year-old boy was hit and killed by a van at a family birthday party. The boy's older brother and the van's driver were also hit by bullets, police say. The suspect, Ricky Ricardo Chiles III, committed suicide in a Chicago-area hotel.
``Gangs of criminals are putting people on a boat, sometimes even at gunpoint,'' Maltese PM says. EU ministers propose a 10-point plan to help address the crisis. More than 35,000 refugees and migrants have crossed the Mediterranean since the beginning of 2015.
``We will get to the bottom of it,'' says Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. Police release the names of six officers involved in the arrest of Freddie Gray. Gray died of a spinal injury Sunday, exactly one week after he was taken into custody. Police plan to conclude their investigation by Friday, May 1.
Freddie Gray's death has inflamed tensions across the country. But Gray is far from the only suspect who died under questionable circumstances after he was already in custody. In New Iberia, Louisiana, deputies claimed White shot and killed himself in the back of a squad car.
Two people are detained for disorderly conduct and destruction of property, police say. Freddie Gray died Sunday, one week after he was arrested by Baltimore police. His family says his voice box was crushed and his neck snapped before he slipped into a coma. A police union has compared protests to a ``lynch mob''
Ebony Dickens of East Point, Georgia, posted her Facebook rant under the name Tiffany Milan. ``All Black ppl should rise up and shoot at every white cop in the nation starting NOW,'' she said. The post was removed a day later, just before Dickens was arrested.
The SS City of Cairo was sunk by a German U-boat in November 1942. The vessel sunk to more than 16,800 feet under the surface -LRB- 5,150 meters -RRB- It went undiscovered until 2011 when Deep Ocean Search decided to go looking for it. The salvage operation was completed in September 2013.
Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao fight in Las Vegas on Saturday night. Most of the tickets for the highly-anticipated clash have sold out. But some ringside seats are still available on resale websites. The most expensive seat on sale through the StubHub website is $ 180,000.
On Thursday, NPR ran its latest update on the urban turmoil that has erupted in Baltimore. Peter Bergen : A key ingredient of the unrest was African-Americans ``targeting Asian-owned businesses'' He says there's little evidence to suggest a pattern in which Asian businesses have been targeted.
The group includes 19 women and five men. Jury selection started in January with 9,000 potential jurors. Holmes is accused of killing 12 people and injuring 70 others in 2012. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. If convicted, he could face the death penalty.
Robert Boardwine's friend used his sperm and a turkey baster to get pregnant. She thought because they never had sex, she was entitled to be the boy's sole parent. Boardwine initially was hesitant when she approached him with the idea. He argued that he always expected to be a dad.
Jordan Spieth tells CNN he misses his autistic sister Ellie after winning the Masters. The 21-year-old equaled Tiger Woods' 1997 record winning score of 18 under par. Spieth is the second-youngest winner at Augusta National, behind only Woods. He reveals he will serve Texas BBQ at next year's Champions Dinner.
Denver teacher Kyle Schwartz passes out Post-it notes to her third grade students. She asks them to complete the sentence, ``I wish my teacher knew..'' Sometimes, their wishes bring tears to her eyes, and offer a glimpse of painful struggles. Schwartz : ``Kids can share what they feel comfortable with''
Charlotte Dujardin and Valegro win their second consecutive FEI World Cup Dressage title. The French pair narrowly missed their own world record in Las Vegas on Sunday. It was a full 10 percentage points clear of any rival inside the Thomas & Mack Arena.
Showjumping and dressage World Cup Finals begin in Las Vegas this week. More than 80,000 fans are expected to attend the four-day event. Vegas is home to the finals for the sixth time since first hosting showjumping in 2000. The Thomas & Mack Center is a stone's throw from the Strip.
A Japan Railway maglev train hit 603 kilometers per hour -LRB- 374 miles per hour -RRB- on an experimental track in Yamanashi Tuesday. A spokesperson said the train spent 10.8 seconds traveling above 600 km per hour, during which it covered 1.8 kilometers -LRB- 1.1 miles -RRB- That's nearly 20 football fields in the time it took you to read the last two sentences.
Two CNN Heroes are among the earthquake survivors in Kathmandu, Nepal. Anuradha Koirala has a rehabilitation center that is home to 425 young women and girls. Pushpa Basnet and the 45 children she cares for were forced to evacuate their residence.
University of Nebraska at Omaha is getting a new $ 81.6 million stadium. A taco shop has teamed up with the university to shoot tacos into the stands. #tacocannon hurtled past #EarthDay as the No. 1 trending topic Wednesday in Omaha.
Jody Farley-Berens started Singleton Moms to help single parents with cancer. Since 2006, the group has helped more than 300 parents in the Phoenix area. Do you know a hero ? Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015. Click here to nominate a hero.
Chad Bernstein's nonprofit, Guitars Over Guns, pairs middle-school students with musicians. Since 2008, Bernstein's organization has worked with more than 225 students in Miami-Dade County. Do you know a hero ? Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015.
In 2003, less than 30 % of religiously affiliated Americans supported same-sex marriage. By 2014, that number had climbed to 47 %, according to a survey conducted by the Public Religion Research Institute. ``There's been a huge swing in the last decade,'' said PRRI's CEO.
Ronen Ziv had tickets to travel to Nepal for his child's birth from a surrogate mother. Nepal is a popular place for Israeli couples to have surrogate children. Ziv says his baby is in a breech position, requiring a cesarean section. He worries his surrogate mother will not get the proper medical attention.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is continuing to rule with an iron fist, a lawmaker says. He has ordered the execution of about 15 senior officials so far this year, Shin Kyung-min says. The lawmaker says he was given the information by the South Korean National Intelligence Service.
Gov. Jerry Brown ordered mandatory statewide restrictions on water use for the first time in the state's history. John Sutter : California is leading the way in recognizing that population and economic growth has to respect the physical limits imposed by planet Earth. He says we can't strongly blame climate change for the specific event happening right now.
``I was utterly thankful and grateful to the people who rescued me,'' Louis Jordan says. His father says he held hope because his son had a good boat. ``He's got very strong constitution and -LRB- is strong -RRB- not only physically, but spiritually,'' he says.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will address a joint meeting of Congress on Wednesday. He has an opportunity to do right by these women, and issue an unequivocal and irrefutable apology. House Resolution 121 called on the Japanese government to formally acknowledge, apologize, and accept responsibility.
In the U.S., almost 42 million adults have been married more than once. That's up from 22 million in 1980 and 14 million in 1960. The millennials I talked with prefer their partners to be debt-free and riding high. In Scandinavia, 82 % of couples have first child out of wedlock.
``There is more seismic activity.. and we think there will be more activity today,'' geologists say. The volcano has already erupted twice this week, spewing ash to a depth of about 23 1/2 inches. Evacuations involve not only people but animals as well.
Anthony Sideri used heroin for the first time on July 22, 2007. That was the last time he used drugs, the first and only time he was arrested. He spent the next couple of weeks curled up on the floor of a jail cell withdrawing, cold turkey.
NASA says its Messenger space probe crashed into Mercury on Thursday. The crash wasn't visible from Earth because it occurred on the far side of Mercury. The spacecraft was healthy when it crashed, but was out of fuel. Scientists say they'll be busy for years studying data from the probe.
ISIS documents give a window into the bureaucracy of the self-declared caliphate. The group sees itself as a government operating under a rule of law. Some subjects would be banned -- democracy and political thought, tourism and archaeology. ISIS Health Department runs hospitals for anyone feeling ill, not just wounded fighters.
Supreme Court justices appeared divided Tuesday during historic arguments over the constitutionality of gay marriage. Justice Anthony Kennedy returned to a familiar role as the court's pivotal vote. Chief Justice John Roberts this time seemed to lean more closely to conservative justices. Supporters and opponents of same-sex marriage rallied outside the courtroom.
Yemeni officials say Saudi airstrikes hit a school, injuring at least a half dozen students. Separately, Saudi airstrikes wipe out about a fifth of the armored vehicles captured by southern separatists. The fighting has killed hundreds of people in less than two weeks, UNICEF says.
As many as 1,600 migrants have died at sea in the past 10 days, says CNN's Nic Robertson. Robertson : The migrant crisis has been brewing for years, but now minds are focused. He says Italians are alarmed at the prospect of a million migrants arriving in Europe this year.
Italy's Finance Police's ship, the Calabrese, regularly patrols the Mediterranean off Lampedusa. In recent years, it has been the first point of entry to Europe for tens of thousands of migrants from Africa and the Middle East. Many migrants have been beaten and robbed of their possessions.
The death toll is expected to rise as the full extent of the damage is assessed. Dozens of bodies are pulled from the historic nine-story Dharahara tower. At least 17 people are reported killed on Mount Everest. The quake was the strongest in the region in more than 80 years.
Erica Kinsman alleges sexual battery, false imprisonment and intentional infliction of emotional distress. ``This stunt was expected,'' Jameis Winston's attorney says. A prosecutor decided against bringing criminal charges in the case. Winston led the Florida State Seminoles to a national championship.
Attorney Stephen Patrick Beatty confirms he is representing Joseph Kent. ``He wanted me to tell people most that he doesn't want violence in his name,'' Beatty says. The incident unfolded live on CNN about 40 minutes after the 10 p.m. curfew went into effect.
Taylor Swift says she asked her mom to get screened for potential health issues. ``The results came in, and I'm saddened to tell you that my mom has been diagnosed with cancer,'' she says. Swift does not divulge the nature or severity of the cancer. #PrayForMamaSwift is a trending hashtag on Twitter.
Sarah Brady, 73, died of pneumonia, her family says. Her husband, James Brady, was shot in the head by John Hinckley Jr. in 1981. James Brady spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair, advocating against gun violence. He died in August.
Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri was a former top deputy to Saddam Hussein. He also was a key figure in Sunni extremist groups battling the Iraqi government. He was the highest-ranking member of Hussein's regime to evade capture. The U.S. military is aware of his role in the Hussein regime.
India could outpace China as the world's fastest growing economy as soon as this year. China's economy is slowing after over 25 years of breakneck growth. India faces a longer list of economic challenges including higher unemployment, chronic inflation and an overwhelming lack of basic infrastructure.
Kenyan Deputy President William Ruto gives U.N. three months to relocate refugees. Ruto : ``The way America changed after 9/11 is the way Kenya will change after Garissa'' Al-Shabaab gunmen stormed Garissa University College, killing 147 people.
Guenter Grass is best known around the world for his novel ``The Tin Drum'' He died in a clinic in the city of Luebeck, where he was taken over the weekend. Grass focused in much of his work on learning from the horror of war and genocide.
Bikram Choudhury is accused of rape or sexual assault by six of his former students. He says he feels sorry for his accusers, claiming they've been manipulated by lawyers to lie. He repeatedly denied sexually assaulting anyone, saying he would never resort to physical aggression.
The U.S. military says it has made great progress in its effort to develop a self-steering bullet. In February, the ``smart bullets'' passed their most successful round of live-fire tests. The bullets are.50-caliber projectiles equipped with optical sensors.
Putin will spend hours fielding questions from the general public on live television. It is direct access to the Russian leader, or at least as direct as most Russians will ever get. Last year he spoke for three hours and 55 minutes. Critics of the Kremlin slam this entire event as Russia's imitation of democracy in action.
Greenpeace activists climb aboard a Shell oil rig to protest the company's plans to drill in the Arctic. The six protesters used ropes and harnesses to scale the huge platform in the Pacific Ocean. Shell says the boarding was illegal and jeopardized the safety of the activists and the crew.
President Obama and Raul Castro shake hands at a dinner for Latin American leaders. The two nations have barely been on speaking terms -- officially -- for more than 50 years. Obama is expected to announce he's removing Cuba from the United States' list of countries that sponsor terrorism.
The Solar Impulse 2 is attempting to fly around the world without using a drop of fuel. The experimental plane has been grounded by the weather in China. The plane needs near perfect weather conditions, including cross winds of less than 4 knots, to fly. With more than 17,000 solar cells, the plane stores up energy during the day.
Freddie Gray did not get timely medical care after his arrest, police say. He was not buckled into a seat belt while being transported in a police van, they say. Police Commissioner Anthony Batts says there are no excuses for the mistakes. Anger over the incident and police response to it continues to grow.
The five activists on women's rights -- aged from 25 to 32 -- were picked up by police in three different cities. They had been planning a campaign against sexual harassment on public transportation. The women are still considered suspects in an ongoing criminal investigation and may face charges in the future.
SpaceX founder Elon Musk tweets : ``Ascent successful. Dragon enroute to Space Station. Rocket landed on droneship, but too hard for survival'' He later clarified that the rocket landed, but tipped over. The Dragon will dock with the space station a couple of days after launch.
Paul Nungesser is suing Columbia University for allowing his accuser to publicly brand him a ``serial rapist'' Emma Sulkowicz started carrying a mattress around campus to protest the school's handling of the case. The lawsuit alleges the defendants violated his right to an education free of gender discrimination.
The arrest and death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore has sparked protests and accusations of police brutality. It's unclear how Gray suffered a severe spinal cord injury that led to his death seven days later. Gray was arrested on a weapons charge in a high-crime area of Baltimore.
The people of Nepal are still trying to recover from two major earthquakes and a mudslide. There is something you can do to make an impact. We vetted a list of organizations working in Nepal that have created specific funds for relief efforts. The Salvation Army is one of them.
Report : U.S. must rethink role of manned submarines and prioritize new underwater detection techniques. Concern that China could match U.s. underwater capabilities has encouraged development of unmanned drone ship. Anti-Submarine Warfare Continuous Trail Vessel would be 132 feet long and likely cost about $ 20 million.
``Mr. Scott never tried to fight,'' Feidin Santana tells CNN. Officer Michael Slager is charged with murder in the shooting death of Walter Scott. Slager shot Scott, 50, as he ran away from the officer, who was chasing him on foot.
William Melendez, 49, is charged with assault and mistreatment of a prisoner. He's seen in police car dashcam video grabbing the unarmed motorist and punching him. ``The alleged police brutality in this case can not and will not be tolerated,'' prosecutor says. In the wake of the reversal of fates, Inkster Police Chief Vicki Yost resigns.
U.N. appeals for $ 174 million to help Nigerian refugees who've fled to neighboring nations. Militants have attacked relentlessly for six years, sending 192,000 people seeking shelter. Aid agencies are scrambling to provide the refugees with clean water, shelter, food.
Protesters chant ``Out with Dilma'' and ``Time for change'' It's the second day of nationwide anti-government demonstrations in less than a month. Protesters are pushing for the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff. Rousseff's approval rating plummeted to 13 % after protests began last month.
CyArk is a non-profit company that specializes in digital preservation of threatened ancient and historical architecture. It uses groundbreaking laser scanning to ensure that incredibly accurate digital versions of the world's treasures will stay with us forever. CyArk has a plan to scan 500 World Heritage sites in five years.
Yuhei Takashima, 64, says he paid for sex with more than 12,000 women in the Philippines. Police say he took 147,600 photos of his activities over more than a quarter of a century. The Philippines is a notorious destination for sex tourists.
A witness says she saw Walter Scott and Officer Michael Slager in a ``tussle'' Slager shot and killed Scott after pulling him over for a broken taillight. A witness says he never saw Scott try to get Slager's Taser. Slager has been charged with murder.
65 cases of Pappy Van Winkle were reported missing from a Kentucky distillery in October 2013. The high-end heist was ``indicative of an inside job,'' the sheriff said at the time. On Tuesday, a grand jury indicted nine members of a criminal syndicate.
Dr. Nima Namgyal says he has seen 14 bodies so far. The Indian Army's Everest Expedition evacuated the bodies of 13 mountaineers from a base camp. Two companies report the deaths of Americans on the mountain. ``It's been a really rough day,'' Jon Reiter says.
President Barack Obama meets with his Cuban counterpart Raul Castro in Panama. It's the first time the two nations' top leaders have sat down for substantive talks in more than 50 years. Obama says the meeting was ``candid and fruitful'' and could be a ``turning point''
The third World Happiness Report was released on April 23. People who live in the happiest countries have longer life expectancies and more social support. The U.N. General Assembly declared March 20 as World Happiness Day in 2012. Switzerland took the top spot from Denmark in 2015.
Police meet with a man who was in Walter Scott's car when he was pulled over. The passenger was detained briefly after the shooting, one officer wrote in a police report. The stress of the past week since Scott was fatally shot in the back is too much, mayor says.
Migrant deaths at sea have increased by a factor of 30 compared to the same time last year. Almost all the deaths have occurred in the perilous central Mediterranean crossing from Libya to Italy. EU critics called for much tougher action to deter asylum seekers from making the risky journey.
The Ethiopian government confirms 30 of its citizens were among the two groups. The al-Furqan Media video is titled ``Until There Came to Them Clear Evidence'' It shows two groups of men, one in orange jumpsuits and the other in black, being killed.
There's ample evidence that Christians have been targeted by terrorist groups. Some acts are not centrally organized, such as reports that Muslim migrants threw 12 Christians off a boat. Other deadly acts and alleged plots have been blamed on established terror groups, including ISIS and Al-Shabaab.
Mohamed Morsy is convicted on charges of violence and inciting violence. He is sentenced to 20 years in prison for the torture of protesters outside the presidential palace. But he is acquitted of murder in the deaths of protesters. His party calls the trial a ``travesty of justice''
The Virgin Mary Church was torched and looted by a mob in Kafr Hakim. It was one of at least 42 churches and many more businesses and homes targeted that August. Some blamed the church and other attacks on supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist movement.
Aaron Hernandez is found guilty of first-degree murder in the death of Odin Lloyd. Lloyd was found shot seven times in an industrial park in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. Hernandez also faces murder charges in a 2012 double homicide ; he has pleaded not guilty. Hernandez was a standout athlete in Bristol, Connecticut.
Edwin Sabuhoro worked as a warden in Rwanda's Volcanoes National Park. He decided to help poachers make a living by turning them into farmers. His cultural village has received international recognition. He is now trying to take his idea further to other national parks.
Every culture, every generation, remakes Jesus in its own image. ``Killing Jesus,'' a NatGeo production rebroadcast Sunday on Fox. ``A.D.,'' NBC's sequel to the blockbuster miniseries ``The Bible,'' and ``Finding Jesus''
In Neolithic times trepanation was thought to be a cure for everything from epilepsy to migraines. The implement often used to carry out the primitive surgery was made from one of the sharpest substances found in nature -- obsidian. Obsidian can produce cutting edges many times finer than even the best steel scalpels.
Record Store Day is Saturday. Many stores will host live performances, drawings, book signings and special sales. Record stores are cultural institutions that celebrate music history and nurture the local music scene. But you might think twice before asking if they stock ``I Just Called to Say I Love You''
Ernst Haas was one of the 20th century's great photojournalists and image-makers. He was an early member of the great Magnum Photos cooperative. In the'50s, he was a regular on movie sets. A new book of Haas' movie photography is called ``ErnSt Haas : On Set''
Robert Bates pleads not guilty to second-degree manslaughter. He is accused of fatally shooting a man he says he meant to subdue with a Taser. A judge grants Bates permission to go to the Bahamas for a family vacation. The family of Eric Harris, the man Bates killed, says the decision sends a message of apathy.
Fatu Kekula, 23, was just a year away from finishing up her nursing degree in Liberia. Her mother, father, sister and cousin came down with the deadly Ebola virus. A CNN story prompted donations from around the world to help her pay for education.
Ben and Shelby Offrink met in college at a calculus-based physics study group. In 2014, Shelby was diagnosed with a rare form of brain cancer in her spine. Ben was also diagnosed with Hodgkins lymphoma, which he had fought for 15 years. Ben is now on chemotherapy, hoping it will force the cancer into remission.
Hospital gowns are among the most vexing parts of being in the hospital. The Cleveland Clinic introduced new gowns in 2010 after being prompted by the CEO. The Henry Ford Health System is in the process of updating its gowns. It's all part of a trend among hospitals to improve the patient reviews.
At least five police cars were damaged by people who smashed windows and jumped on them. Vandals broke and damaged storefront windows and trashed one 7-Eleven, police said. 12 people were arrested, Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said. The event ended after speeches at Baltimore City Hall.
Swiss physicist Jean-Pierre Wolf is working on using focused laser beams to affect the weather. Laser seeding is a cleaner version of cloud seeding, a form of weather modification. It can create new clouds where there are none, mimicking the natural process that creates clouds.
Most of those released were women and children ; the rest were ill or elderly. The freed Yazidis were received by Peshmerga, who sent them to Irbil, an official says. It wasn't immediately clear what motivated Wednesday's release, Nuri Osman says.
Dr. Anthony Moschetto faces criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson charges. His attorney calls the allegations against his client ``completely unsubstantiated'' Two other men -- identified as accomplices -- have pleaded not guilty. Police officers allegedly discovered approximately 100 weapons at his home.
Questions have arisen about the identity of the girl who Dr. Sanjay Gupta helped operate on. Gupta helped doctors at Bir Hospital in Kathmandu perform a craniotomy in a makeshift operating room. More than 4,300 were killed in Nepal by the 7.8-magnitude quake.
Jackson Gordon is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University. By day he is an alter ego : the Dark Knight himself, Batman. He has created a full suit of armor plating, cape and cowl -- matte black and built to stop a knife. Gordon raised $ 1,255 in 6 days on Kickstarter.
U.S. prosecutions of would-be recruits have exploded. At least 25 people have been detained since January. The flurry of arrests is a sign that complicated, manpower-intensive investigations are finally being completed. But they also highlight the unique challenges that ISIS poses to al Qaeda.
The Red Cross opens a blood bank in Kathmandu. The U.S. government is providing $ 1 million in immediate assistance. India is sending 10 more aid flights and 10 helicopters. Pakistan is sending a medical team, a 30-bed hospital and search-and-rescue experts.
A total of 47 bodies have been exhumed from two of the 11 mass graves, an Iraqi official says. Grieving Iraqis, apparently not related to the soldiers, gathered to pray over the bodies. ISIS claimed to have executed that many soldiers captured in June outside Camp Speicher.
``It seems he survived by sheer willpower,'' says a doctor who treated Rishi Khanal. Khanal, 27, suffered a crushed foot and was too weak to talk about his traumatic experience. A 4-month-old baby was rescued 22 hours after the quake struck.
Indonesian President Joko Widodo says decision was result of cooperation with Philippines. Mary Jane Veloso's mother : ``We are so happy, so happy. I thought I had lost my daughter already but God is so good'' Veloso was arrested in 2010 after $ 500,000 worth of heroin was discovered in her luggage.
More than 100 people arrested during the fracas in Baltimore this week were released Wednesday. ``We're not giving up on them. We're just going to follow up,'' police commissioner says. President Barack Obama denounces the ``violence, looting, destruction'' in Baltimore.
NEW : Denver police report nine arrests in Wednesday's demonstrations. NEW : The charges include assault of a police officer, robbery, resisting police, disobedience to lawful orders, obstructing roadways, and interference. In Washington, about 500 protesters gathered in the middle of H Street and 7th.
Zuriel Oduwole is often described as ``the world's youngest filmmaker'' Aged 12, she already has four documentaries under her belt -- all of which focus on African issues. Her most recent project, ``A Promising Africa,'' was released late last year.
L'Hermione is a painstaking replica of an 18th century French frigate. It fought with the United States' founding fathers in the War of Independence. In 1780, the original Hermione was assigned to a French nobleman. After the war, Lafayette returned to live in France.
Nepal is still trying to come to terms with the scale of the disaster. Relief organizations say the tarmac at Tribhuvan International Airport remains jam-packed with cargo planes. Several aircraft carrying essential supplies have been turned away, or diverted to India and elsewhere.
The FBI says it will investigate whether civil rights were violated during the beating. The suspect allegedly fled by car, foot and horseback when law enforcement officers tried to arrest him. KNBC reports that the man appeared to be kicked 17 times, punched 37 times and hit with a baton.
The Sewol ferry sank on April 16, killing 304 people, mostly high school students. The divers stopped searching months ago because of the winter and water conditions. The victims' families have demanded that the ship be recovered in order to thoroughly investigate the accident. But families say the underlying problems that led to the sinking of the Sewol are far from resolved.
Typhoon Maysak is moving west-northwest after skirting the Federated States of Micronesia. Its eye is projected to make landfall in the central or northern part of Luzon on Sunday. The storm has weakened and is expected to lose more strength before it reaches the Philippines.
Cystic fibrosis patients shouldn't be near each other because they can share infections. ``I told Dalton I'd rather be happy -- like really, really happy -- for five years of my life and die sooner than be mediocre happy and live for twenty years,'' Katie says.
Assyrians, a Middle Eastern minority with a history reaching back more than 4,000 years, formed their own militia. Assyrians belong to the rapidly dwindling Christian population of Iraq. Most Iraqi Christians live in Kurdish areas in the north, which have been a relative haven of stability.
Two African-American candidates win their wards to make the six-member City Council 50 % black. It was the first city election since white police Officer Darren Wilson shot and killed unarmed black teenager Michael Brown in August. The City Council was predominantly white, as is the police force.
Pope Francis uses the word ``genocide'' to refer to mass killings of Armenians a century ago. His use of the term genocide -- even though he was quoting from the declaration -- upset Turkey. The nation recalled its ambassador to the Vatican for ``consultations''
``I watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw,'' North Charleston police chief says. Officer Michael Slager, 33, is charged with first-degree murder in the death of Walter Scott, 50. Slager is also ``terminated'' from the force, North Charleston mayor says.
Noelle Velentzas, 28, and Asia Siddiqui, 31, are accused of plotting attacks in the U.S. ``Why can't we be some real bad bitches ?'' asked one of the women, according to the complaint. The complaint paints a picture of a disturbing trend in homegrown extremism.
Sabra Dipping Co. is recalling 30,000 cases of hummus. The recall is voluntary. So far, no illnesses have been reported. Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people.
UNRWA : ``Never has the hour been more desperate in the Palestine refugee camp of Yarmouk'' Syria's state-run news agency reports up to 2,000 people have fled in the past two days. The camp has been engulfed in fighting between the government and rebel forces since 2012.
The northern Ramadi districts of Albu Faraj, Albu Essa and Albu Risha are in the hands of ISIS. At least 10 Iraqi security forces were killed in the attacks, an official says. ISIS took over parts of Ramadi in the first half of 2014.
Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi arrives in Tikrit to claim victory over ISIS. Officials fear Shiite militiamen might take ``scorched earth'' reprisals against Sunni population. Iraqi security says few ISIS militants left in the city are hiding inside houses.
Julian Zelizer : Hillary Clinton is famous enough by now to go by one name, but should she ? He says despite her decorated career in government, we've long called Clinton by her first name. Zelizer says it serves to reinforce gender stereotypes that women need to be aloof.
At least three people were shot in separate incidents in Ferguson, Missouri, on late Tuesday and early Wednesday. The unrest carried on until about 3 a.m. and three police vehicles were damaged by rocks. It follows rioting in Baltimore after the death of Freddie Gray.
``He was outgoing -- loved everybody,'' his brother tells CNN's Don Lemon. Walter Scott, 50, was pulled over for a faulty brake light Saturday morning. Dash cam video shows Scott get out of his car and run. A lawyer for Scott's family speculated it could have been related to ``child support''
The Red Cross calls for an immediate 24-hour ceasefire in battle-torn Yemen. The U.N. Security Council meets to discuss the situation in the Arabian Peninsula nation. Shiite rebels are pitted against external Arab air forces and fighters loyal to Yemen's president. The United Nations says 519 people have been killed in Yemen in the past two weeks.
Al-Shabaab militants have launched a series of deadly attacks over the last few years. Many of the math and science teachers in this area are Christian. In northeast Nigeria, the Islamist militant group Boko Haram has been waging war against the government -- and civilian population.
25-1 outsider Many Clouds wins the Grand National. Jockey Leighton Aspell won last year's Grand National too. Owner Trevor Hemmings says it is his third win in the race. AP McCoy's horse Shutthefrontdoor was heavily backed to win.
Nicholas Slatten is sentenced to life in prison. Paul Slough, Evan Liberty and Dustin Heard are sentenced to 30 years each, plus one day. The four were among seven Blackwater employees who opened fire in the Nusoor Square traffic circle in Baghdad in 2007.
An unidentified male walked through a public area on the west front of the Capitol and shot himself, police say. The male had a backpack and a rolling suitcase that authorities treated as treated suspicious packages. The Capitol lockdown was lifted about 3:50 p.m. ET.
``Furious 7'' producers hired a Lockheed C-130 Hercules to fly five cars 12,000 feet high. The film makes it appear as if another plane -- a C-17 Globemaster III -- drops the cars. The Hercules is the oldest continuously produced family of military planes.
Passengers are mostly Indian nationals, plus Yemenis and people from other countries. The stress of living in a war zone showed on the passengers' faces. The Houthi rebels control Sanaa, including the airport. But the Saudis are bombing the city and thus control air access.
``We just lay there hopelessly, because we know automatically we're going to be killed,'' one student says. Investigators and Kenya Red Cross crews are finishing up the task of removing the bodies. The corpses of four Al-Shabaab attackers remain where they fell.
Lane Bryant has launched an ad campaign for its Cacique line titled #ImNoAngel. The campaign is a not-so-subtle dig at Victoria's Secret. The lingerie giant was criticized last year for a campaign featuring the words ``Perfect Body''
A grand jury decides not to indict two officers in the fatal shooting of Jason Harrison. The officers are still facing a wrongful death lawsuit from Harrison's family. Harrison's mother had called police for help getting him to the hospital. The incident occurred in June, and the family filed a lawsuit in November.
NASA scientist : ``We're going to have strong indications of life beyond Earth within a decade'' ``We know where to look. We know how to look,'' she says. NASA isn't talking about intelligent alien civilizations from the Alpha Quadrant. It's referring to microorganisms.
``Galaxy Quest'' is the latest movie to be adapted for the small screen. The DreamWorks film centered on the cast of a canceled space TV show. The film's scribe Robert Gordon is expected to write the TV version and executive produce with the film's director.
A drone carrying traces of a radioactive material was found on the rooftop of Japan's equivalent to the White House. The discovery came on the same day a Japanese court approved a government plan to restart two reactors. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's push to restart the reactors is unpopular among many Japanese.
The Statue of Liberty and Liberty Island will reopen to the public Saturday. A bomb threat that led to its evacuation was declared unfounded. The NYPD bomb squad on Friday examined a locker thought to contain a suspicious package and found it was empty. About 2,700 people were safely transported from the island.
Nearly 60 % of the people in America's workforce are paid hourly and work part-time. Writers : Congress should help low-wage workers gain access to predictable work schedules. They say major chains use ``just-in-time'' scheduling to maximize profit, which creates stressful work environments.
The New South China Mall is the biggest shopping mall in the world. Opened to the public in 2005 in Dongguan in the south of the country, the goal was to attract 100,000 visitors a day. Despite the grand plans neither stores nor shoppers came.
Patrick Cherry is an NYPD detective assigned to the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force. He faces suspension, reassignment or loss of his clearance after the video of the altercation went viral. ``I was just angry, at that moment, for that exchange,'' Cherry said Friday.
Caitlin McGuire and Brian Rogers own the Breckenridge Cannabis Club. Colorado became the first state in the nation to allow the sale of recreational marijuana. The pair's journey to build a legal marijuana empire is documented in the new CNN Original Series ``High Profits''
Brynn Duncan has mast cell syndrome, meaning her mast cells act strangely. Mast cells are the regulators of your immune system. Scientists don't know yet what causes mast cell disease. But genetics may make some children more susceptible to developing the mutations. For more information, visit mastcell.org.
Hundreds of thousands of Brazilians are taking to the streets in protests against President Dilma Rousseff. Protesters say Rousseff should be impeached for failing to halt the corruption at Petrobras. Rousseff's approval rating plummeted to 13 % after the protests last month.
Mourners read names of some of the victims as candles flickered in the dark. The attack at a university in Garissa on Thursday killed 147 people, mostly students. Some students remain unaccounted for, and wailing relatives alternate their searches between hospitals and morgues.
Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran are on death row for their part in a failed heroin smuggling plot. The members of the Bali Nine were arrested after Indonesian police received a tip from Australian Federal Police. The seven others who took part in the operation are serving lengthy prison sentences.
UNICEF releases a report on the crisis titled ``Missing Childhoods'' It also launched a social media campaign using the hashtag #bringbackourchildhood. More than 1.5 million people have fled their homes due to the violence. At least 196 teachers and 314 schoolchildren were killed in 2014.
U.S. military trainers bouncing between multi-million dollar, high security bases, on Black Hawks. The facility was originally intended to resupply the entire east of the country with uniforms, ammunition, even fuel for vehicles. The project has been handed between rotations of American officers and is perhaps a little distant from its first conception.
UltraHaptics' technology creates tactile three-dimensional shapes literally out of thin air, using ultrasound. Through an emission of sound waves, sensations are projected through the air and to the user. Creating buttons and shapes literally anywhere they're needed opens up a slew of possibilities.
Google rolls out the Pac-Man game Tuesday. It's easy to play : Simply pull up Google Maps on your desktop browser. Twitterers have been playing the game in Manhattan, on the University of Illinois quad, in central London and down crooked Lombard Street.
Aaron Hernandez is on trial for murder in the death of Odin Lloyd. The former New England Patriots star is known for his swagger in court. His lawyers slap him on his back and huddle before court begins, appearing at ease. Jury deliberations resume Wednesday in the trial.
Laura Bernardini is a director of coverage at CNN's Washington bureau. She says she's never read the Bible from Genesis to Revelation. Bernardini : ``I have been looking for a form of meditation in my hectic life'' She says friends and family are excited about the project.
China launches a smartphone app starring its current leader, President Xi Jinping. The app features the latest news about Xi and allows users to access the traditional texts that Xi quotes from. It's unclear how many people have downloaded the app, which is available on Apple's App Store.
Stan Freberg died of natural causes at a Santa Monica hospital, his son and daughter said. Freberg lampooned cultural institutions and described himself as a ``guerilla satirist'' He won a Grammy Award in 1959 for best performance, documentary or spoken word.
Cynthia Cheroitich hid in her room for two days after the attack. ``I was scared so much,'' she tells CNN. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta declares three days of national mourning. Police parade the bodies of men they say carried out the attack in Garissa.
Rick Santorum says he'd hoped Indiana Gov. Mike Pence would veto the ``fix'' to his state's religious freedom law rather than limiting its scope. The law unleashed an intense backlash against Indiana, led by tech giants like Apple and Salesforce and sports organizations like the NCAA.
``Joni was found unconscious in her home -LRB- Tuesday -RRB- afternoon,'' her website says. ``She regained consciousness on the ambulance ride to an L.A. area hospital,'' it says. Mitchell, 71, was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1997.
A 34-member team from the Indian army plans to climb Mount Everest in May. The group will pick up at least 4,000 kilograms of waste from the high-altitude camps. The trip marks the 50th anniversary of the first Indian team to scale Mount Everest.
``The survival of Israel is non-negotiable,'' Netanyahu says. Netanyahu has been perhaps the most vocal critic of nuclear talks with Iran. He took his case to the U.S. Congress last month, over President Obama's objections. The final deal faces a June 30 deadline.
Holland America Line says two guests were found dead inside their stateroom. The ship left Tampa, Florida, on March 29 on a 14-day Southern Caribbean cruise. Puerto Rico Port Authority spokesman Efraín Santiago says cleaning staff discovered the deceased passengers.
Hassan Rouhani : ``We can cooperate with the world'' He thanks Iranians for ``resisting'' by standing up for the country's rights. Rouhani says his government kept its word to Iranians when negotiating the deal. The framework deal was agreed upon Thursday and sets parameters for talks.
Tornadoes, fierce winds and severe thunderstorms with large hail are predicted. Severe weather is perilous anytime, but tornado conditions are more dangerous during the night. Scattered storms will soak Illinois and Missouri, and wind and hail will continue to be moderate in those states.
Sierra Sharry and Lane Smith were about to become parents when Smith fell and hit his head. Smith never recovered. Sharry asked the photographer to make their family complete, just for one picture. The family photo has become a social media sensation after appearing on the photographer's Facebook page.
Kenya's politicians and public have struggled with these ideas over and over. But the blood of 147 people slaughtered and 79 more injured, has them debating them with renewed vigor. The number of people killed in the attack is plaguing Kenyans with self-doubt.
The Global Slavery Index says Nigeria has the highest number of people in modern slavery of any sub-Saharan country. Nigeria's anti-trafficking agency, Naptip, is one of the strongest on the continent. But it's clearly overwhelmed by the realities of working in what is now a zone of military operations.
Tech entrepreneur Regina Agyare is teaching local girls how to code. Achievers Ghana is a non-profit organization supporting 250 girls in Nima, a slum in Accra. The aim is to break through social barriers and provide a generation of female role models.
The controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law drives a wedge. The law's supporters claim it is basically a copy of the federal law. The key difference in the Indiana law is that it expands the instances where someone can use religious freedom as a defense. Some legal scholars say what Indiana has done is expanded the scope of the law.
A Florida judge denies a motion by two women to join a lawsuit against Prince Andrew and Alan Dershowitz. Buckingham Palace has denied the allegations, which surfaced in a court filing in January. The ``lurid details'' of alleged abuse were unnecessary to determining whether the victims could join the lawsuit.
The Dalniy Vostok freezer trawler was carrying 132 people. Of the people on board, 78 were Russians. The 54 others were foreign nationals from Myanmar, Ukraine, Lithuania and Vanuatu. More than 60 people were rescued from the chilly waters.
Tuesday's self-imposed deadline to agree on parameters for an endgame pact on Iran's nuclear program has come and gone. The good news is that the sides are still talking. The date that really counts is June 30, when the parties must figure out a comprehensive deal.
Germanwings co-pilot reportedly ignored warnings to ``pull up'' and ``terrain'' Was not enough to stop the aircraft from slamming into the French Alps. Experts call for enhanced crash avoidance software that could take control of an aircraft away from a pilot and steer the plane to a safe altitude.
Indiana Gov. Mike Pence said he will ``fix'' the state's controversial religious freedom law. Julian Zelizer : The easy way to fix Indiana's RFRA is to add one small amendment. He says the amendment would codify that discrimination against the LGBT community is harmful.
