marseille prosecutor says ``so far no videos were used in the crash investigation'' despite media reports. journalists at bild and paris match are ``very confident'' the video clip is real, an editor says. andreas lubitz had informed his lufthansa training school of an episode of severe depression, airline says.
membership gives the icc jurisdiction over alleged crimes committed in palestinian territories since last june. israel and the united states opposed the move, which could open the door to war crimes investigations against israelis.
amnesty's annual death penalty report catalogs encouraging signs, but setbacks in numbers of those sentenced to death. organization claims that governments around the world are using the threat of terrorism to advance executions. the number of executions worldwide has gone down by almost 22 % compared with 2013, but death sentences up by 28 %.
amnesty international releases its annual review of the death penalty worldwide ; much of it makes for grim reading. salil shetty : countries that use executions to deal with problems are on the wrong side of history.
museum : anne frank died earlier than previously believed. researchers re-examined archives and testimonies of survivors. anne and older sister margot frank are believed to have died in february 1945.
student is no longer on duke university campus and will face disciplinary review. school officials identified student during investigation and the person admitted to hanging the noose, duke says. the noose, made of rope, was discovered on campus about 2 a.m.
the rev. robert schuller, 88, had been diagnosed with esophageal cancer in 2013. his tv show, ``hour of power,'' was enormously popular in the 1970s and 1980s.
theia, a bully breed mix, was apparently hit by a car, whacked with a hammer and buried in a field. ``she's a true miracle dog and she deserves a good life,'' says sara mellado, who is looking for a home for theia.
mohammad javad zarif has spent more time with john kerry than any other foreign minister. he once participated in a takeover of the iranian consulate in san francisco. the iranian foreign minister tweets in english.
bob barker returned to host ``the price is right'' on wednesday. barker, 91, had retired as host in 2007.
college-bound basketball star asks girl with down syndrome to high school prom. pictures of the two during the ``prom-posal'' have gone viral.
former gop representative compares president obama to andreas lubitz. bachmann said with possible iran deal, obama will fly ``entire nation into the rocks''reaction on social media ? she was blasted by facebook commenters.
americans paid more for some fruits and vegetables last year because of the drought. tourists will now have to ask for a glass of water at a california restaurant. perhaps the only good thing is another ``great'' wine grape harvest last year.
while republican gov. asa hutchinson was weighing an arkansas religious freedom bill, walmart voiced its opposition. walmart and other high-profile businesses are showing their support for gay and lesbian rights. their stance puts them in conflict with socially conservative republicans, traditionally seen as allies.
17 americans were exposed to the ebola virus while in sierra leone in march. another person was diagnosed with the disease and taken to hospital in maryland. national institutes of health says the patient is in fair condition after weeks of treatment.
andrew getty's death appears to be from natural causes, police say, citing coroner's early assessment. in a petition for a restraining order, getty had written he had a serious medical condition. police say this is not a criminal matter at this time.
lz : indiana law pushing back lgbt rights, and other states' anti-lgbt moves, bow to far right wing that gop candidates need for 2016. cruz, huckabee, jindal, carson, walker are reviving culture wars, he says.  equality for lgbt has not yet ``won'' in america.
once a super typhoon, maysak is now a tropical storm with 70 mph winds. it could still cause flooding, landslides and other problems in the philippines.
father : ``i know he went through what he went through''louis jordan was found on his sailboat, which was listing and in bad shape, rescuer says. he appears to be in good shape, physically and mentally.
``furious 7'' pays tribute to star paul walker, who died during filming. vin diesel : ``this movie is more than a movie''``furious 7'' opens friday.
richard klass : iran framework agreement on nukes is strong, but opponents will cast doubts on this and try to obscure its facts. he says the deal would cut uranium stockpile, centrifuges, implement rigorous inspections ; it should be judged on merits, not disinformation.
singing the national anthem is a risky proposition. whitney houston nailed it ; roseanne barr destroyed it.
london's metropolitan police say the man was arrested at luton airport after landing on a flight from istanbul. he's been charged with terror offenses allegedly committed since the start of november.
the total eclipse will only last 4 minutes and 43 seconds. people west of the mississippi river will have the best view. parts of south america, india, china and russia also will see the eclipse.
indiana town's memories pizza is shut down after online threat. its owners say they'd refuse to cater a same-sex couple's wedding.
a south carolina man says he spent 66 days alone at sea before being rescued. other sole survivor stories include a japanese man washed away by a tsunami. an el salvador man says he drifted from mexico to marshall islands over a year.
iranian sports official : the ban will be lifted for some events in the coming year. but he says ``families are not interested in attending'' some sports matches.
netanyahu says third option is ``standing firm'' to get a better deal. political sparring continues in u.s. over the deal with iran.
here are six of cnn's best videos of the week. clips include a look at mike tyson's abandoned mansion.
easter is a key event in the christian faith, but where did the easter bunny come from ?why is the date different every year, and what does it have to do with the moon ?
authorities in the indian city of malegaon have asked residents to take a `mugshot' of their cattle. cows are revered by the majority hindu population, and many parts of the country have laws banning the slaughter of cattle. officials in malegaon believe this is the best way to solve cow slaughter cases and enforce the law.
the fbi cites social media messages sent by keonna thomas, 30. she's accused of trying to travel overseas to join isis. thomas is one of three women facing federal terror charges this week.
going online has become the path of least resistance if you want to make yourself heard. but where there is the restrictive rule of law, journalists are vulnerable to the anger of officialdom. from china to malaysia, journalists and bloggers have been jailed -- even killed.
robert lewis burns jr. was part of lynyrd skynyrd's original lineup. his car hit a mailbox and a tree just before midnight.
the singer had been off the scene for a while. she says she was bedridden for months. lavigne was sometimes too weak to shower.
fbi agents and a suspected serial robber exchange gunfire in an fbi stakeout. two fbi agents are injured and the suspect is shot during the gunfight.
in response to lawsuit, ncaa says it doesn't control quality of education for student-athletes. but its website emphasizes importance of education, ``opportunities to learn''lawsuit claims students didn't get an education because of academic fraud at unc.
the large hadron collider -lrb- lhc -rrb- begins again after a two-year shutdown. the restart was delayed in march.
bombing of targets in central sanaa smashes residents' windows and doors. hundreds killed in less than two weeks ; humanitarian situation desperate, agencies say.
a native american from a tribe not recognized by the feds wins the return of his eagle feathers. an irs accountant is fired for insisting on carrying a symbolic sikh knife to work. a group of chicago pastors takes on city hall over its permits for new churches and loses.
terrorist group al-shabaab has attacked a kenyan college, killing and taking hostages. it is a clear indicator the security situation in east africa is deteriorating, says stefan wolff. more than military action aloe is needed to combat terrorism in the region, he says.
judge won't allow teen leave hospital before her last chemotherapy treatment. attorneys for the teen are deciding whether to appeal. cassandra c. is now in remission and is no longer opposed to the chemotherapy treatments.
the song rules the chart for 13th week. it passes robin thicke's ``blurred lines''song three weeks from potentially tying ``one sweet day'' for record.
thai airways subsidiary thai smile features cartoon network paint job on a320 jet. overhead bins, head rests and air sick bags feature characters from cartoon network.
high temperatures are recorded on the northern tip of the antarctica peninsula. the world meteorological organization will make the final determination.
kim ki-jong is charged with attempted murder and assaulting a foreign envoy. he's accused of stabbing u.s. ambassador mark lippert in the face and arm. police said kim opposed the joint u.s.-south korean military drills.
frida ghitis : president barack obama is right to want a deal, but this one gives iran too much. she says the framework agreement starts lifting iran sanctions much too soon.
deion sanders calls out son for ``hood doughnuts'' comments. ``you're a huxtable with a million $ trust fund.  stop the hood stuff !''
a test in kansas finds listeria in a blue bell ice cream cup. the company announces it is temporarily shutting a plant to check for the source. three people in kansas have died from a listeria outbreak.
hong kong banker alleged murder case adjourned until may. the 29-year-old rurik jutting is accused of killing two indonesian domestic workers.
the final film featuring the late paul walker, ``furious 7'' is opening around the globe this weekend. it's worldwide debut may approach or cross $ 300 million by the end of easter sunday.
manning is serving a 35-year sentence for leaking thousands of classified documents. she says she will be using a voice phone to dictate her tweets.
an outside review found that a rolling stone article about campus rape was ``deeply flawed''danny cevallos says that there are obstacles to a successful libel case, should one be filed.
japan's top military official earnestly revealed that the country's self defense force -lrb- sdf -rrb- had never encountered a ufo. celebrity politician and former wrestler antonio inoki had posed a question concerning extraterrestrials to a government committee.
a man killed in a raid in the philippines in january was a ``most wanted'' terrorist, the fbi says. marwan was a malaysian believed to have provided support to islamist terror groups. 44 elite philippine commandos were killed in the raid on his hideout last month.
shibuya ward in tokyo passes an ordinance that gives same-sex couples some of the rights of married heterosexual couples. activists welcome the decision ; hope that it will lead to greater equality for lgbt people in japan. recent poll finds most young japanese open to the idea of gay marriage.
david lynch says he won't be directing new episodes of twin peaks. showtime ``saddened'' over decision, which involved a dispute over money.
kentucky player mutters n-word under his breath about a wisconsin player at postgame news conference. andrew harrison, who is black, tweets that he apologized to frank kaminsky, who is white. kaminsky says he's talked it over with harrison -- `i'm over it''
a blast rocks a chemical plant in china's southeastern fujian province for the second time in two years. six were injured after the explosion and are being hospitalized. the explosion was triggered by an oil leak, though local media has not reported any toxic chemical spills.
delaware family becomes ill at the sirenusa resort in the u.s. virgin islands. preliminary epa results find methyl bromide was present in unit where family stayed. u.s. justice department has initiated a criminal investigation into the matter.
georgia powers : rand paul, running for president, would like minorities to think he's an advocate.  his record on rights shows otherwise. on civil rights, women's choice, voting rights, immigrant dreamers, education, he has shown he'd take country backwards, she says.
justice department prosecuting fedex over unauthorized shipment of drugs. danny cevallos : fedex has a strong argument that it shouldn't be held responsible.
``mad men's'' final seven episodes begin airing april 5. the show has never had high ratings but is considered one of the great tv series. it's unknown what will happen to characters, but we can always guess.
chris rock posts selfies after being pulled over three times in last seven weeks. ``stopped by the cops again wish me luck,'' he posted this week.
mark wahlberg is planning to appear in ``patriots' day''the film will be about events surrounding the 2013 boston marathon bombing. another film, ``boston strong,'' is also in the works.
``the price is right'' gives away a car. . accidentally. a model makes a big mistake during a game. host drew carey thought the error was hilarious.
kenyans use hashtag # 147notjustanumber to honor victims of kenya university attack. the attack killed 142 students, three security officers and two university security personnel.
``all the police investigators have left the -lrb- germanwings -rrb- crash site,'' a police official says. private security company is ensuring no one goes on the site, official says. authorities say co-pilot andreas lubitz deliberately crashed the plane, killing all 150 on board.
carlos colina, 32, is arraigned on charges of assault and battery, improper disposal of a body. body parts were discovered saturday in a duffel bag and a common area of an apartment building. the victim in the case is identified as jonathan camilien, 26 ; authorities say he knew colina.
couple spends $ 1,200 to ship their cat, felix, on a flight from the united arab emirates. felix went missing somewhere at john f. kennedy international airport, airline says. pets are ``treated no differently than a free piece of checked luggage,'' jennifer stewart says.
fan favorite series ``arrested development'' to return for a fifth season, according to producer. brian grazer claimed the show would be back in a podcast. netflix is not commenting.
jay parini : when religious identity, ethics, tolerance are roiling the culture, it's worth looking at message of holy week and easter. he says ritual enactment of these three days is reminder that again and again the human condition moves through darkness into light.
some of jesus' most important financial backers were women, historians say. joseph of arimathea and nicodemus, both men of stature and wealth, chipped in to help fund jesus' ministry.
the trials of dzhokhar tsarnaev and aaron hernandez are coming to a close. voting has put rahm emanuel and ferguson, missouri, back in the headlines. rand paul has announced his bid for the presidency.
ted cruz has built a brand as a stalwart conservative on fiscal issues. but he's also eager to champion social issues at a time when many republicans are eager to avoid them. cruz says the gop needs to unite young libertarian-minded voters and evangelicals.
``vampire diaries'' star nina dobrev announces she's leaving the show. ``nothing will be the same again,'' fans say.
prosecutors formally charged former top official zhou yongkang. zhou charged with accepting bribes, abuse of power and leaking state secrets. former domestic security official is the most senior chinese official to face corruption charges.
federal education minister smriti irani visited a fabindia store in goa, saw cameras. authorities discovered the cameras could capture photos from the store's changing room. the four store workers arrested could spend 3 years each in prison if convicted.
the group included four children, turkish official says. turkish military didn't say what group's intent was. uk foreign office says it is trying to get information from turkish officials.
kayahan wrote some of turkey's best-loved pop songs. the singer was first diagnosed with cancer in 1990. he most recently performed in february in istanbul.
submarine is in zvyozdochka shipyard, in northwestern russia. no ``dangerous'' substances on the submarine, shipyard spokesman told itar-tass.
the fire on a platform in the gulf of mexico has been extinguished, pemex says. 45 workers were injured in the blaze, according to the state oil company. four workers were killed in the oil rig fire, which started early wednesday.
network regains control of facebook page and one of its 11 channels. isis logos displayed but no claim of responsibility made by any group. network reaches 260 million homes worldwide.
three people killed ; five wounded in attack on attorney general's office in balkh province. staff and civilians have been rescued as gunmen engaged afghan security forces.
dzhokhar tsarnaev is found guilty on all 30 charges he faced. seventeen counts were capital charges, meaning he is eligible for the death penalty.
fire breaks out at the general electric appliance park in louisville, kentucky. city official : no is believed to be injured or trapped.
u.s. official said in february that iraqi troops could go into mosul in april or may. officials say now that there's no timetable, an invasion could come sooner or later. they note that recapturing mosul from isis could be a complicated endeavor.
the penalty is more than 10 times the previous record, according to a newspaper report. utility commission to force pacific gas & electric co. to make infrastructure improvements. company apologizes for explosion that killed 8, says it is using lessons learned to improve safety.
at least one person died as a result of storms in illinois, an official says. fire department : rescuers searching for trapped victims in kirkland, illinois.
more questions than answers emerge in controversial s.c. police shooting. officer michael slager, charged with murder, was fired from the north charleston police department.
police in lucknow, northern india, have bought four drones to help control crowds. the unmanned aerial vehicles are being fitted with cameras and pepper spray to subdue angry protesters. some indians have questioned why police are resorting to ``authoritarian and forceful methods''
secret service says supervisor's security clearance has been suspended. he is accused of trying to kiss a colleague.
richard dysart best known for leland mckenzie in ``l.a. law''dysart had many tv and film roles, including spots in ``being there'' and ``the thing''actor won drama desk award for performance in theatrical ``that championship season''
mindy kaling's brother vijay chokalingam pretended to be black to get into med school. jeff yang : that's offensive and ironic, considering that minorities experience many disadvantages.
manuscript of ``american pie'' lyrics is sold to unnamed buyer for $ 1.2 million. douglas brinkley : the song, a talisman for its age, brings joy to people 44 years later.
anthony ray hinton goes free friday, decades after conviction for two murders. court ordered new trial in 2014, years after gun experts testified on his behalf. prosecution moved to dismiss charges this year.
april 8 was huge for ``lost'' and ``empire records'' fans. april 14, april 25, october 21 are other big dates in movies.
letourneau fualaau had a sexual relationship with her student. he was 13 when they began the relationship in 1996. in may, they will celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary.
twisted sister's 2016 tour will be its last. band will celebrate 40 years in 2016. twisted sister drummer a.j. pero died in march.
the film will premiere on memorial day. it opened last year's cannes film festival. a planned march theater release was scrubbed.
don mclean's ``american pie'' lyrics auctioned for $ 1.2 million. the song is dense with symbolism ; mclean says lyrics, notes will reveal meaning. ``pie'' is mclean's biggest hit, was no. 1 in 1972.
the rapper assaulted the photographer at los angeles international airport in 2013. west apologized as part of the settlement, the photographer's lawyer says.
the actor says he's not planning on seeing the buzzed-about documentary. he called scientology ``brilliant''travolta credits the church with helping him deal with his son's death.
b.b king is now out of the hospital and back at home. bluesman suffered from dehydration and exhaustion after a 2014 show in chicago. b.b. is short for blues boy, part of the name he used as a memphis disc jockey.
survivor jeff bauman stresses ``we will never replace the lives that were lost''a man who was at the finish line is glad dzhokhar tsarnaev is now a ``convicted killer''``justice has been served today,'' says a once wounded police officer.
bi apologizes on social media : ``my personal speech has led to grave social consequences''chinese tv star filmed cursing the late chairman mao zedong. making disrespectful references to china's leaders in public is still taboo.
kansas spotters report at least four tornadoes. potosi, missouri, sees wind damage to roofs and some flooding. thursday's forecast calls for more storms but to the east.
animal planet captures katie the giraffe's labor and delivery. the new baby wiggles its ears, rises, tries to nurse from its mom.
the smash hit series ``game of thrones'' returns for a fifth season sunday. major story arcs should start to converge this year.
u.s., venezuelan relations threaten to overshadow obama, castro meeting. venezuelan president says united states moved to oust him ; he has the support of the cuban foreign minister.
ed royce : best predictor of iran's future behavior is its past behavior. new framework keeps iran's nuclear door well and truly open, he says.
there are few similarities between democrats martin o'malley and jim webb. but they find themselves in a similar position as long-shot presidential hopefuls.
police officers escort the funeral procession to the service. scott's family did not attend his visitation ; they need privacy, mayor says. police meet with the man who was a passenger in his car when it was pulled over.
authorities believe the two shootings are connected. a suspect leads police on a wild chase, firing at multiple locations. a census bureau guard is in critical condition, a fire official says.
iranian plane came within 50 yards of u.s. navy sea hawk copter. navy copter was on patrol in international airspace. u.s. official think iranian plane may have been under orders of local commander.
liana barrientos, 39, re-arrested after court appearance for alleged fare beating. she has married 10 times as part of an immigration scam, prosecutors say. barrientos pleaded not guilty friday to misdemeanor charges.
the internet is raging about a cat going #upordown. the debate is fueled by an optical illusion photo. the story brings to mind the furor over #thedress.
there is something about pope francis that's reawakened her faith, say cnn's carol costello. meeting cardinal gerald lacroix of quebec showed how the pope is putting people in place to carry out his new vision, costello writes.
mullah omar, the reclusive founder of the afghan taliban, is still in charge, a new biography claims. an ex-taliban insider says there have been rumors that the one-eyed militant is dead.
an amnesty international report calls for attacks on women's rights activists in afghanistan to be investigated. the report examines the persecution of activists not only by the taliban and tribal warlords, but also by government officials. some activists continue their work despite their lives being at risk.
state troopers say they found methamphetamine and marijuana on a bus carrying nelly and five others. nelly has been charged with felony possession of drugs.
the ``star wars'' digital collection is set for release this week. special features include behind-the-scenes stories on the unique alien sounds from the movie.
julian zelizer : hillary clinton has immense political and governmental experience. he says she needs to make stronger connection to her party's base. clinton also needs to convince voters of her authenticity, zelizer says.
he made the statement before in march. o'malley is low in the polls with democrats, but he has been flirting with a presidential run.
satyam computers services was at the center of a massive $ 1.6 billion fraud case in 2009. the software services exporter's chairman, ramalinga raju, admitted inflating profits. satyam had been india's fourth-largest software services provider.
johan bavman photographed fathers in sweden, which has generous parental leave. sweden's policies encourage fathers to take just as much leave as mothers.
hicks is charged in the deaths of three muslim college students in chapel hill, north carolina. victims' family members have called on authorities to investigate the slayings as a hate crime.
hbo released a teaser video for the new season, starting june 21. the series stars colin farrell and vince vaughn.
some complained about the film's depiction of the iraq war. a petition asked the university not to show the bradley cooper film.
lauren hill's coach says she was ``an unselfish angel''after playing for her college, lauren hill helped raise money for cancer research. ncaa president says she ``achieved a lasting and meaningful legacy''
prosecutor : carlos colina, 32, will be arraigned on the murder charge next week. he's already been arraigned for alleged assault and battery, improper disposal of a body. body parts were found in a duffel bag and a common area of an apartment building.
hawks say neither thabo sefolosha nor pero antic will play wednesday against brooklyn. chris copeland left ``bloody trail of handprints'' as he returned to club seeking help, club says. suspect in custody, police say, adding they will release his name once charges are filed.
ryan gosling's directorial debut, ``lost river'', is set in the city of detroit.
elizabeth sedway posted to video to facebook showing her removal from a plane. she was forced off a flight in hawaii and told she couldn't head home to california. alaska airlines later apologized, saying it could have handled the situation differently.
closing arguments in the case are set for tuesday. aaron hernandez is charged with first-degree murder in the killing of odin lloyd. his defense lawyers made their case on monday.
gender-based violence is at epidemic levels in guatemala. according to the united nations, two women are killed in guatemala every day. five abuse survivors known as la poderosas have been appearing in a play based on their real life stories.
durst, a convicted felon, charged with unlawful possession of a firearm. he is accused of having a. 38 caliber revolver and faces up to 10 years in prison.
sherrilyn ifill : a city with a pattern of racial discrimination elected two new black candidates to its city council tuesday. she says ferguson faces other changes, too, that should spur rethinking in working class suburbs across america.
chemical damages ozone and is being phased out, though it's used in strawberry fields, epa says. a delaware family becomes ill at a resort in the u.s. virgin islands. preliminary epa results find methyl bromide was present in the unit where they stayed.
oliver minatel, a 22-year-old player from brazil, was attacked from behind, he says. witnesses say suspect tried to choke him with the cord from his headphones. team says forward is ok, will play saturday night ; suspect was taken for evaluation.
university of virginia is under continuing investigation over how it handles sexual assault on campus. some fear retraction of rolling stone story about one case takes focus off the broader issue. after the story came out, uva instituted a zero-tolerance policy on sexual assault going forward.
jordan spieth holds lead in 2015 masters. strong starts from mcilroy and woods. both fall away as 21 year old spieth takes control.
a couple named burger and king ?internet has a meltdown over ``vampire diaries'' departure.
bring your own large ``cup'' for a $ 1.49 7-eleven slurpee. any sanitary container less than 10 inches in diameter is fair game.
world war i graffiti is discovered in an underground quarry. the writings are generally plain, with listings of names and places. photographer : graffiti a human connection to the past.
the nomination of loretta lynch as u.s. attorney general was announced in november. she would be the country's first african-american woman attorney general. but as her confirmation process drags on, her supporters wonder why.
the crash occurred at the exotic driving experience at walt disney world speedway. officials say the driver, 24-year-old tavon watson, lost control of a lamborghini. passenger gary terry, 36, died at the scene.
nasa scientists discuss steps to discover life elsewhere in the universe over the next two decades. meg urry : life elsewhere in the universe, and even elsewhere in our own milky way galaxy, is practically inevitable. but the chances that we can communicate with that life are slim, she writes.
police in london are trying to catch the gang which staged a multi-million heist during the easter vacation. former police commander : such crimes require meticulous planning and use of information by criminals. the masterminds behind such complicated crimes carefully assemble their gangs with men they can trust.
the united nations relief and works agency chief will visit yarmouk camp saturday. pierre krähenbühl will assess the humanitarian situation there. yarmouk has been engulfed in fighting since december 2012.
moviegoers are tearing up during the emotional ending of ``furious 7''the movie's end is a tribute of sorts to actor paul walker, who died during filming.
a court allowed a wife to serve divorce papers via facebook. danny cevallos : why not let people be found via social media ?
``twin peaks'' creator david lynch announced he was departing the showtime revival of the cult series sunday. cast members of the show posted a youtube video wednesday pleading for him to return. wednesday was the series' 25th anniversary.
selena quintanilla-perez will be re-created as hologram-like figure. the tejano singer is first to be part of a new technology, says sister. selena was killed 20 years ago but remains hugely popular.
100 passengers and crew members have been sickened on celebrity infinity. the ship, which is based on the west coast, left san diego in late march. the cdc is scheduled to board the ship monday.
five young women have been detained by china since early march. they campaigned against sexual harassment. their detention has attracted international criticism.
former tsa agent daniel boykin, 33, videotaped his female co-worker in the restroom, authorities say. authorities say they found 90 videos and 1,500 photos of the victim on boykin's phone and computer. boykin worked in an administrative capacity and didn't do public security screenings, tsa official says.
debris from boat to be dried, inspected and taken to landfill. the debris contained fish normally found in japanese waters. the earthquake and tsunami hit japan in march 2011.
cuba pulled off a diplomatic coup by gaining attendance at summit of the americas. first time since 1962, the u.s. has not blocked cuba's attempt to join. cuba is trying to re-establish itself at the two-day summit in panama.
isis says it controls several buildings at the baiji oil refinery. iraqi government security officials say iraqi forces remain in full control. the refinery, iraq's largest, has long been a lucrative target for militants.
case begins when police find video of what appears to be a gang rape. 2 students from troy university in alabama are charged in the case.
ramp agent tells authorities he fell asleep in cargo hold, alaska airlines says. the cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled.
the walter scott shooting inspired a local artist to create artwork. phillip hyman crafted the angel-winged artwork in the middle of the night. protesters from the black lives matter movement have started using it as his symbol.
the incident occurred on april 7 north of poland in the baltic sea. u.s. says plane was in international airspace. russia says it had transponder turned off and was flying toward russia.
temperatures dipped into the mid-30s during 4 days man lay in woods of philadelphia park. mom told police son was with her in maryland, but he was found friday with blanket, bible. victim being treated for malnutrition, dehydration ; mother faces host of charges after extradition.
in an interview with the new york times, president obama says he understands israel feels particularly vulnerable. obama calls the nuclear deal with iran a ``once-in-a-lifetime opportunity''israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and many u.s. republicans warn that iran can not be trusted.
nigeria's president-elect sends nation's prayers to families of girls. world still expresses hope that the girls will return. boko haram controls a portion of northeastern nigeria.
philadelphia police add attempted murder to list of charges mom will face. mom told police son was with her in maryland, but he was found friday alone in woods. victim being treated for malnutrition, dehydration ; mother faces host of charges after extradition.
a new kansas law bans what it describes as ``dismemberment abortion''supporters say it's a groundbreaking step. opponents say it's dangerous and politically motivated.
mother must complete ``treatment'' before she can be extradited, maryland police say. mom told police son was with her in maryland, but he was found friday alone in woods. victim being treated for malnutrition, dehydration ; mother faces host of charges after extradition.
one man's entrepreneurial quest turned into unexpected success. ``100 days of rejection'' took jiang out of his comfort zone. it's the fear of rejection, more than rejection itself, which holds us back.
april 8, 2014, the who finally started reporting the ebola epidemic was a ``concern''front line health care workers and ebola survivors say the world has to act quicker.
dillard was the first of the duggar daughters to be married. her 9-pound, 10-ounce son was overdue.
bystanders stopped to rescue a lost brood of ducklings in d.c. tuesday. cnn's brian todd and khalil abdallah paused to capture the scene.
relatives of wayne community college shooting victim say he was gay, local media report. the suspect had worked for the victim but was let go, college president says. the suspect, kenneth morgan stancil iii, was found sleeping on a florida beach and arrested.
richie benaud first earned fame as a cricket player, later as broadcaster. prime minister tony abbott calls him ``a cricketing champion and australian icon''
cape verde seeking to tap-into rich cultural heritage. tiny island nation wants to grow creative economy.
the migrants were picked up 30 miles off the coast of libya, an italian leader says. at least 480 migrants have died while crossing the mediterranean this year.
new research indicates that a play published in 1728 was written by william shakespeare. scholar lewis theobald had passed the work off as his own. texas researchers used software to analyze and compare the language of the men.
the attack at a garissa university last week killed 147 people, mostly students. the government is tracking the finances of people suspected of ties to al-shabaab.
company known for use of publicity stunts. tweet contained pun on name of liverpool's kop stand. it was used to link to liverpool-newcastle stats. social media backlash leads to apology.
astrophysicist amy mainzer says she was was touched by malala's story of determination. mainzer also works on educating children about science.
maya wang : 5 women held by china authorities after planning international women's day protests on sex harassment remain detained. she says in a year when country poised to adopt anti-domestic violence law, beijing also sending chilling message on women's activism.
jodi arias is sentenced to life in prison with no possibility for parole. arias expressed remorse for her actions.
attorney general holder reiterates justice department policy on prostitutes. soliciting prostitutes is banned, even in places where it's legal, holder says. his memo comes weeks after a report involving dea agents and prostitutes.
jennifer lawless : there's a strong temptation to view hillary clinton's candidacy as all about cracking the glass ceiling for women. she says the reality is that most people will vote not on gender but on the economy and partisanship.
errol louis : by chance a bystander video caught south carolina officer shooting apparently unarmed black man. federal law on reporting of such shootings goes unenforced -- how many instances do we never hear about ? he asks. louis : it's long past time for officials to tell the truth -- even when there's no video.
nashville's district attorney banned prosecutors from offering female sterilization in plea deals. danny cevallos : present-day sterilization plea deals are voluntary and unlike creepy antiquated practices.
emy afalava is a loyal american and decorated veteran ; he's also an american samoan. sam erman and nathan perl-rosenthal : it is outrageous that he and others like him are denied citizenship.
haroon moghul : tsarnaev found guilty in terrorist bombing of boston marathon.  how to prevent future such acts by young muslims ?pew reports by 2050, one in 4 will be muslim.  many equate terror with islam.  not true, but we should grasp what causes radicalization. moghul : muslims see their community besieged around world, some think solution is violence.  they must be shown other way to help.
dean obeidallah : apple's new emoji lineup is diverse in race, ethnicity and sexual orientation. it's just like america, but what took apple so long ? obeidallah asks. he says change may rankle -lrb- or win over ? -rrb- conservatives who discriminate against people because of their sexual orientation.
mark o'mara : video captured michael slager shooting walter scott ; if cop had been wearing a body camera, he probably wouldn't have fired. o'mara says such cameras are expensive, but cheaper than wrongful death payouts -- and the cost of a human life. the underlying problem is racial bias in policing ; until that's solved, body cameras are a good interim solution.
pentagon releases map showing coalition forces have taken back 25-30 % of iraq territory from isis. counterinsurgency specialist afzal ashraf on what new data tells us about fight. ashraf : where it counts -lrb- isis is -rrb- not standing and fighting.
somali sisters, iman and siham hashi, make up faarrow. a fusion of hip-hop, world pop and afrobeats, they are currently finishing debut album.
isis raided yarmouk refugee camp near damascus on april 1. 18,000 palestinian refugees remain in the camp, cut off from vital aid. one defiant elderly resident told cnn : ``i will not leave the yarmouk camp even if i am 75 or 76 years old''
sequel to popular ``bible'' miniseries debuting on nbc. ``mad men'' premieres the first of its final episodes. netflix premieres its first marvel series, ``daredevil''
marvel studios releases first looks at paul bettany as the vision in ``avengers : age of ultron'' and charlie cox in full ``daredevil'' costume. jamie bell's character of the thing was also unveiled for 20th century fox's marvel-based reboot of ``fantastic four''bryan singer unveiled the first look at ``x-men : apocalypse'' angel played by ben hardy.
ursula ward talks about the shock and pain of her son's murder. odin lloyd's sister said her brother's death has felt like' a bad dream'
edward mccaffery : there's a fundamental unfairness to u.s. tax laws. but americans don't care because most of us get a refund on tax day, and that makes us happy.
aaron hernandez has been found guilty in odin lloyd's death, but his troubles are not over. he also faces murder charges in suffolk county, massachusetts, but trial was postponed. in addition, hernandez will face two civil lawsuits ; one is in relation to suffolk county case.
akhil amar : lincoln's two biggest legacies, keeping union together and abolishing slavery, had midwestern roots. lincoln saw the federal government as pre-eminent and believed there was no logical border for dividing the u.s.
29 elephants currently live at the circus sanctuary, and 13 more will join by 2018. the expansion comes after ringling bros. said it would stop using elephants in circus. $ 65,000 worth of care annually includes pedicures, stretching and tons -- literally -- of food.
arsenal beat burnley 1-0 in the epl. a goal from aaron ramsey secured all three points. win cuts chelsea's epl lead to four points.
critically acclaimed series ``orphan black'' returns. ``turn : washington's spies'' starts a second season. ``game of thrones'' is back for season five.
mtv movie awards host amy schumer had some hits and misses during the show. rebel wilson tossed in a censor-worthy joke.
marvel's long-awaited show ``daredevil'' began streaming early friday. binge-watchers are already giving the series high marks.
milano had pumped while on plane. travelers are asked to carry only what they need.
cynthia lennon was john lennon's first wife. she was there during the rise of the beatles. her death was announced by her son, julian.
``amy'' features archival footage of the singer and original music tracks. ``amy'' seeks to ``truly capture not just the great artist that she was,'' filmmakers say. winehouse, who died at 27, said fame would probably drive her ``mad''
prosecutor ray gricar has been missing for 10 years. his laptop and hard drive were found too damaged to read. gricar has been declared legally dead.
citizens gather to honor victims on one boston day, two years after the marathon bombings. ``today will always be a little emotional for me,'' one bostonian tells cnn.
dzhokhar tsarnaev was found guilty of all 30 counts, may face death penalty. the sentencing phase starts april 21 ; a judge predicts it will last four weeks. he warns jurors not to do anything that could be prejudicial to the case.
students stampeded ; some jumped from a fifth story at a dorm ; one student died, school officials say. the blasts were caused by faulty electrical cable, and kenya power is at the school. the panic came less than two weeks after terrorists attacked kenya's garissa university.
the operator of the fukushima nuclear plant said it has abandoned a robotic probe inside one of the damaged reactors. a report stated that a fallen object has left the robot stranded. the robot collected data on radiation levels and investigated the spread of debris.
reserve deputy robert bates surrenders to authorities, posts bail of $ 25,000. bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter in the killing of eric harris.
tourists and locals queue for several hours to get their hands on jenny's butter cookies. people are even hired to stand in line to buy the cookies, which are later sold at an up-to-70 % mark-up. food frenzies have also taken place in other parts of the world.
isis attacked the baiji oil refinery saturday. the refinery, iraq's largest, has long been a lucrative target for militants.
obama's point man in isis fight doesn't rule out u.s. military action beyond iraq and syria. brett mcgurk : iraqi leader making progress with sunni tribes in planned anbar offensive.
saudi general says more than 1,200 airstrikes since campaign began march 26. three saudis were killed in attack on border position, source tells cnn.
amina ali qassim's family sought shelter in a mosque before fleeing yemen. thousands like them are boarding boats to sail to djibouti. saudi arabia has been pounding yemen in a bid to defeat houthi rebels.
woman leaves explosives-laden handbag beside bus during boarding. no group has claimed responsibility, but boko haram is suspected.
alexander blair, 28, of topeka accused of knowing about bomb plot but not contacting authorities. fort riley's security was never breached and the device was ``inert'' and not a threat, authorities say. john t. booker jr., 20, of topeka had acquired bomb parts and made a propaganda video, the justice department says.
hanan, 19, was captured by isis when militants took the town of sinjar. she was among the women and girls separated to be sold as sex slaves.
muhammadu buhari tells cnn's christiane amanpour that he will fight corruption in nigeria. nigeria is the most populous country in africa and is grappling with violent boko haram extremists. nigeria is also africa's biggest economy, but up to 70 % of nigerians live on less than a dollar a day.
robby mook, hillary clinton's soon-to-be campaign manager, distributes a ``values statement''the memo maintains that the campaign must remain humble, disciplined and united.
families flee parts of western iraq amid continuing onslaught from isis fighters. officials there say the iraqi government is failing to protect them. thousands have been forced to grab what they can and head east toward the capital.
rowing team at washington university attacked by flying carp. member of the team caught the attack on video.
framework agreement with iran over its nuclear program was reached this month. julian zelizer : white house should seek congressional approval for final deal. there's a history of congress causing trouble for major international treaties, he says.
actress gwyneth paltrow is trying to live on $ 29 worth of food for one week. it's a part of the #foodbanknycchallenge, which is bringing awareness to food poverty. paltrow was nominated by her friend chef mario batali.
georgia gov. nathan deal signs a medical marijuana bill. the bill is inspired by haleigh cox, a 5-year-old whose seizures threatened her life.
country band lady antebellum's bus caught fire thursday on a texas freeway. a cnn ireporter captured the dramatic scene on video. singer hillary scott shared a pic of the charred bus on instagram.
six people, including one civilian, are killed when a car bomb explodes near a police station. six others are killed when their armored vehicle is attacked on a highway in northern sinai. ansar beit al-maqdis, an isis affiliate, claims responsibility.
carolina sandretto focuses on the crumbling buildings many cubans live in together. the maze-like ``solares'' often include separate families under one roof.
bill passes 92 to 8 ; passage came just hours before cuts to physicians would have taken place. gop presidential candidates ted cruz and marco rubio vote against the bill, candidate rand paul votes for it.
an australian woman finds a ring while snorkeling in bali. words engraved on the antique ring give clues to its owner's identity.
australia to cut welfare benefits for parents who refuse to vaccinate their children. the ``no jab, no pay'' policy will come into effect in january 2016. the australian government estimates more than 39,000 children who have not been vaccinated.
president barack obama is attending the summit of the americas. frida ghitis says he must work to improve ties with region.
foreign fighters are increasingly signing up to fight isis on the front lines. for some of the jihadist group's foes, foreign fighters are not welcome comrades. training and logistical support, some argue, is the best way to support the fight against isis.
gaioz nigalidze is banned from the dubai open chess tournament. officials say he frequented the bathroom, where his phone was hidden in toilet paper. that phone had a chess analysis application open, officials say.
p!nk took to twitter to address online comments about her body. her ``squishiness'' is a result of happiness, she says.
maricopa county sheriff's office in arizona says robert bates never trained with them. ``he met every requirement, and all he did was give of himself,'' his attorney says. tulsa world newspaper : three supervisors who refused to sign forged records on robert bates were reassigned.
the items were originally given to a historian who opposed the camps, cnn affiliate reports. auctioneer hoped they would be bought by museum or someone who would donate them for historical appreciation. japanese-americans were furious about items from family members, others being sold.
v. stiviano must pay back $ 2.6 million in gifts from donald sterling. sterling's wife claimed the ex-clippers used the couple's money for the gifts. the items included a ferrari, two bentleys and a range rover.
thabo sefolosha says he ``experienced a significant injury and. . the injury was caused by the police''he and teammate pero antic were arrested near the scene of a stabbing early april 8. they were not involved in the stabbing police said, but they were arrested for obstruction, other charges.
female juror : ``everyone's life changed because of this''the jurors said they didn't learn of the other charges against hernandez until after the verdict. for these jurors, the system worked : it's ``designed to be fair to both sides''
officers arrested jason rezaian and his wife in july on unspecified allegations. it took months to charge him ; charges were made public last week. the washington post and the state department find the charges ``absurd''
al qaeda confirms that two of its leaders were killed in january drone strikes. other leaders have been killed or captured recently. the terrorist group's capacity to carry out attacks in the west has been greatly diminished.
egypt, saudi arabia to launch joint military maneuvers inside saudi borders. the arms embargo applies to the houthis and backers of ex-president saleh. russia abstains from the u.n. security council vote over the inclusion of sanctions.
official : girl, 15, ``expressed an interest in joining a terrorist group called isis''authorities detain girl at cape town airport, release her into family's care, he says.
tv5monde went black late wednesday and was still out hours later. the network blames an ``islamist group'' ; there's no claim of responsibility.
former rap mogul marion ``suge'' knight will be tried for murder in a videotaped hit-and-run. his bail is reduced to $ 10 million from $ 25 million. a judge dismisses one of four charges against knight.
``i rate this as no. 1 on my list of things in my life that i regret,'' robert bates tells ``today''he says he didn't mean to kill eric harris and rejects claims his training records were forged. ``i still can't believe it happened,'' bates tells the nbc show.
more than 10,000 people marched in durban against violence, officials say. twitter followers voiced their support through hashtag campaigns. a cape town resident tweets his complaints against a zulu king.
third suspect identified as george davon kennedy of murfreesboro, tennessee. young woman was raped on a crowded beach in broad daylight, police say. some bystanders saw what was happening and didn't stop it, authorities say.
officials say 131 californians were affected by one strain, five by other strains. about 70 % of the people who could show health records were unvaccinated. outbreak began in december among visitors to two disney theme parks.
the film's cast is diverse. ew points out that hollywood still needs to catch up. one of the stars says the franchise has evolved.
the cause of a gas line explosion in fresno, california, is unknown. two of the injured were undergoing emergency surgery.
``batman v. superman : dawn of justice'' trailer leaked thursday before being yanked offline. film will be released on march 25, 2016 and stars ben affleck and henry cavill.
john helinski's id and social security cards had been stolen. his case worker and a cop had to get foreign id papers to get him a driver's license. then helinski remembered a bank account he used to have.
dr. anthony moschetto, 54, arrested for selling drugs and weapons, prosecutors say. authorities allege moschetto hired accomplices to burn down the practice of former associate. attorney says client will ``vigorously'' defend himself.
kenneth morgan stancil, charged with first-degree murder, swears at the judge. deputies escort him from court after he tries to flip over a table. stancil is accused of killing an employee at wayne community college.
uss oklahoma was lost during japanese attack on pearl harbor in 1941. hundreds of crew members were buried without identification.
yarmouk is a refugee camp near damascus in war-ravaged syria. pierre krähenbühl of the united nations : individual lives underscore need for humanitarian action.
the attack at a garissa university last week killed 147 people, mostly students. mohamed mohamud taught at a madrassa in the kenyan town. authorities fear the rise of homegrown terrorists in the african country.
all u.s. consulate personnel safe after blast, state department spokeswoman says. suicide bombers blow up car near the u.s. consulate in irbil, iraq.
previous popes had finessed the question of whether the killing of 1.5 million armenians was genocide. because he often shines such a smiley face on the world, it can be easy to forget the bluntness francis sometimes brings to the bully pulpit.
here's a roundup of the week's trending pop-culture stories. they include a new ``star wars'' trailer and an ill-advised, on-camera rant.
almost 16 million people in yemen are in need of humanitarian aid, according to u.n.planeload of aid supplies including food and medicine was flown in to sanaa on tuesday. a rare ceasefire was negotiated to allow the plane to land briefly.
adrian peterson had been suspended after pleading guilty to misdemeanor reckless assault. nfl commissioner roger goodell requires him to keep going to counseling, other treatment. minnesota vikings, 7-9 last season, say they look forward to him rejoining the team.
police say robert bates, 73, thought he pulled out his taser during an arrest. instead, he shot the suspect, who later died at a local hospital.
jonathan crombie is best known for playing gilbert blythe in ``anne of green gables''book, movies about girl sent to live on canadian farm.
reserve deputy robert bates said he meant to use a taser but accidentally shot and killed a man. lawyer for slain man's family says bates wasn't qualified to be on the force and received preferential treatment. ``robert bates has met all the requisite training required by oklahoma to be a reserve deputy,'' bates' lawyer says.
police arrest 133,000 people and seize 43.3 tons of narcotics in a six-month period. china launches a new online campaign to crack down on online drug crimes. celebrities have been embroiled in the nation's intensifying anti-drug campaign.
the soviets invaded poland in world war ii and deported hundreds of thousands of people. tomasz lazar photographed some of these poles and listened to their stories.
les abend : there were likely warning signs during the co-pilot's training. he says andreas lubitz had to go through many challenges to qualify to be a co-pilot.
women in india are street harassed, primarily in crowded areas like trains and railway platforms. elsa marie d'silva : it's time we speak up ; we can not accept harassment as part of our daily routine.
al-shabaab's attack on garissa university college is the group's deadliest so far in kenya. authors : the group is under pressure from african union forces and a covert u.s. war.
jack white taking a hiatus from touring after brief acoustic jaunt. he'll play five states he has yet to get to, charge just $ 3. places and times of shows are currently a mystery.
michelle maclaren is no longer set to direct the first ``wonder woman'' theatrical movie. maclaren left the project over ``creative differences''movie is currently set for 2017.
``the muppets'' might return to television on abc. ``the big bang theory'' co-creator bill prady is co-writing a pilot script. the old muppet gang would return for the variety show.
the young boy's face appeared on milk cartons all across the united states. patz's case marked a time of heightened awareness of crimes against children. pedro hernandez confessed three years ago to the 1979 killing in.
abdirahman sheik mohamud pleads not guilty to charges of providing material support to terrorists and lying to the fbi. the columbus, ohio, resident became a u.s. citizen in february 2014. in april 2014, he went to syria for terrorism training, prosecutors say in a news release.
it's national park week, and that means the parks are free april 18-19. stargazing, revolutionary war programs and other fun happens this week.
cnn's john sutter told the story of the ``poor kids of silicon valley''hud secretary julián castro : our shortage of affordable housing is a national crisis that stunts the economy.
stephanie coontz : indiana, arkansas governors caught off guard by outrage, boycotts over anti-lgbt law. she says religious conservatives who discriminate no longer hold sway in a culture comfortable with diversity, including same-sex marriage.
julian zelizer : elizabeth warren was defiant about wall street, but hillary clinton likely won't be. zelizer : the democrats need wall street's campaign donations to be competitive in 2016.
columbia journalism school team finds major lapses in rolling stone's university of virginia rape story. errol louis : incredibly, the magazine isn't holding its staff accountable or changing procedures.
jon cryer revives ``pretty in pink's'' duckie dance routine for ``the late late show''host james corden tweets that the bit ``fulfilled a childhood dream''
debra lobo, 55, is unconscious but is expected to survive after being shot thursday, police say. she is vice principal of the jinnah medical and dental college in karachi. police : she was on her way to pick up her daughters from school when she was shot.
saudi officials say 500 houthi rebels killed, but signs of progress appear scant. civilian casualties continue to mount. u.n. security council favors houthi arms embargo.
ines dumig's photo series ``apart together'' follows a somali refugee living in germany. the underlying themes include isolation and ``otherness'' and the search for human dignity.
a delaware family becomes ill at the sirenusa resort in the u.s. virgin islands. preliminary epa results find methyl bromide was present in the unit where they stayed. the u.s. justice department begins a criminal investigation into the matter.
before he was slammed into by a police car, mario valencia fired a rifle with a loosened lock. he shoplifted the gun and ammo from a walmart, where a saleswoman who showed him the weapon alerted security. walmart says the lock was properly installed but police say it was loose when it was found.
stoll is a center who has played for the kings since 2008. he is reportedly involved with sportscaster and ``dancing with the stars'' host erin andrews.
the shariya refugee camp opened around six months ago, made up of 4,000 tents and counting. the vast majority of the camp's occupants are from the town of sinjar and fled an isis assault. but ahlam, her children and their grandparents were taken captive.
nepal civil war aftermath inspired maggie doyne to help children. doyne's blinknow foundation supports a home for 50 children and a school that educates hundreds more. do you know a hero ? nominations are open for 2015 cnn heroes.
#firebrittmchenry has become a popular hashtag on twitter. britt mchenry is a reporter for the sports network, and she is based in washington. she apologized on twitter for losing control of her emotions, not taking the high road.
cnn's dr. sanjay gupta answers questions about medical marijuana. readers wanted to know how medical marijuana could ease symptoms of illnesses.
tom brady to gisele bundchen : ``you inspire me every day''bundchen had last runway show wednesday. she'll be focusing more on family, ``special projects''
davion only took to the pulpit to find a forever home. after some setbacks, his family is set to make it official in april.
south africa is battling xenophobic violence after some said foreigners are taking jobs away. a 14-year-old boy is among those killed after a mob with machetes targeted foreigners.
six young minnesotans conspired to sneak into syria and join isis ``by any means necessary,'' prosecutors say. the men, ages 19 to 21, were arrested sunday. they plotted for 10 months, the u.s. attorney for the district of minnesota says.
jason warnock rescued a man whose suv was dangling off the edge of a cliff. warnock : ``i don't feel like i deserve any credit. . i just did what anyone would do''
20-year-old american dancer makes $ 240 a month at kremlin ballet theatre. joy womack studied at bolshoi ballet academy but left in cloud of controversy.
photographer timothy bouldry spent time at a massive landfill in guwahati, india. about 100 families live inside the boragaon landfill, but bouldry said they are ``content''
the city with most multimillionaires in africa is johannesburg. however a crop of new pretenders have been expanding their millionaire count.
lawsuit says scientists infected hundreds of guatemalans with sexually transmitted diseases. a similar lawsuit filed against the u.s. government was dismissed.
the new ``star wars : episode vii -- the force awakens'' trailer is released. a fan gathering in los angeles featured the cast and a droid. the movie comes out december 18.
``real housewives of beverly hills'' star kim richards was arrested early thursday morning. beverly hills police say richards wouldn't leave a hotel when asked and later struck an officer.
deputies reassigned after threats, sheriff says. the two deputies pinned eric harris to the ground and one yelled ``f*ck your breath'' at him after he was shot.
chancey luna convicted of murder for gunning down oklahoma college student as he jogged. police : luna and his friends ``were bored'' so they decided to kill somebody.
the reopening of two nuclear reactors has been blocked by a japanese court over safety fears. the reactors had previously been cleared to reopen by the country's nuclear watchdog. japan's 48 nuclear reactors have been offline in the wake of the 2011 fukushima disaster.
isis is using past western transgressions in iraq to justify its brutality. lack of accountability following 2003 invasion paved way for abuse -- and for sectarian tensions.
president obama attends howard university roundtable on climate change and public health. linking climate change to how it affects a person's health is a new way to talk about the subject.
chad pregracke was the 2013 cnn hero of the year. mike rowe visited pregracke for an episode of ``somebody's got ta do it''
attorney : robert bates assumed the gun was a taser because he saw a laser sight on it. harris family lawyers say there are stark differences between the gun and taser used. in 2009, an officer in california also said he mistakenly used his gun instead of a taser.
nitrogen gas causes a quick loss of consciousness and then death from lack of oxygen, oklahoma says. the state's executions are on hold while the u.s. supreme court reviews the state's use of lethal injections.
ford vox : florida law keeps doctors from talking gun safety with patients ; arizona law forces doctors to promote disputed abortion claim. he says doctor organizations are failing to defend medical profession against politically motivated interference by clueless lawmakers.
u.n. says suicide attacks on mass groups of civilians may be labeled as war crimes. taliban condemns the attack, which isis took credit for. the bomber targeted government workers picking up their pay, isis said in a statement.
the value of the drugs is estimated at more than $ 105 million. officers arrested one venezuelan and two spanish citizens on board the vessel.
david perry : robert kennedy jr. compared autism to the holocaust, wrongly tied it to vaccines. he says it's sad such a prominent kennedy demeans people with autism.
iraqi and u.s.-led coalition forces say they retook a key refinery from isis. peshmerga forces also report retaking terrain from isis.
josh and vanessa ellis, a couple in their 20s, were youth pastors in a suburban seattle church. they and their 8-month-old son, hudson, are killed when a highway barrier falls on their car. ``we are stunned ! shocked !'' the church's lead pastor writes on facebook.
a robotic probe into the fukushima nuclear plant released crucial information on conditions inside the reactor. tepco : recorded radiation levels and temperatures are lower than expected. the robot was sent into the plant after the first one broke down.
the american pharmacists association passed a new policy banning members from participating in lethal injections. pharmacists say role as health care providers conflicts with participation in lethal injection. the pharmacy association first adopted a policy against lethal injection in 1985.
shipping company representative denies cargo ship caused the capsizing. unhcr spokeswoman tells cnn that a cargo ship may have touched the migrant boat. italian authorities have arrested two survivors on suspicion of human trafficking.
presidential hopeful's video, featuring gay couple, gets mature rating in russia. russian tv channel feared airing it would break the country's anti-gay propaganda law. clinton announced her support for same-sex marriage in 2013.
islamist militant group al-shabaab claims responsibility for the attack. the explosion happened across the street from a hotel that was attacked two months ago. mogadishu has been the site of frequent attacks by al-shabaab.
a selection of notes from british artist's 1,500-note collection goes on display in london. artist spent six years trawling streets finding scraps of paper detailing people's lives. in era of smartphones and social media, notes provide reminder of power of handwritten word.
italian navy's ``mare nostrum'' mission to rescue would-be migrants in peril rescued an estimated 100,000 people. operation ended in october 2014, but the tide of people trying to cross the mediterranean has not abated. italy has borne brunt of task of picking up, sheltering and providing food and medical help to illegal migrants.
keith crandall : five years after the deepwater horizon rig exploded, we are only beginning to understand its effects on the gulf. a crab species may be a key indicator of the impact, he says.
the mu du bong was detained after it ran aground off mexico's coast in july. north korea says there's no reason to hold the ship and accuses mexico of human rights violations. mexico says it followed proper protocol because the ship's owner skirted u.n. sanctions.
dan kennedy : after boston marathon bombing guilty verdict, now real trial -- the sentencing -- can begin.  what justice should tsarnaev get ?he says a plea might have been better, to keep bomber out of the news and let him fade into obscurity in maximum security cell. kennedy : the people who deserve to be remembered are victims and mit officer who was killed.
heather mack jailed for 10 years over mother's murder in bali. boyfriend tommy schaefer sentenced to 18 years in prison for the attack. mack gave birth to the couple's daughter last month.
the plane might have hit an object on the runway, the japanese transportation ministry says. 23 people have minor injuries, officials say. the airbus a320 overshot the hiroshima airport runway at 8:05 p.m. tuesday, officials say.
drake thanks madonna and says he ``got to make out with the queen''singer madonna kisses rapper drake onstage at coachella. drake's reaction was priceless, according to the web.
gisele bundchen walked the runway for the last time wednesday night in brazil. the supermodel announced her retirement from runway modeling over the weekend. she plans to continue working in other facets of the industry.
videos of the week include drone footage of oklahoma city. nasa has a car that drives sideways -- and a spacecraft headed for pluto.
climbers are returning to everest after 2014 season on nepal side was canceled. climbing permits increase in tibetan and nepalese side this year. 16 nepalis died in khumbu icefall on everest last year.
the sentencing phase in dzhokhar tsarnaev's trial begins in a federal court in boston. prosecutor shows pictures of the four victims and tsarnaev flipping his middle finger. victims testify about the impact of the bombing on their lives.
expert : decision ``doesn't look very urgent,'' but it appears ``well-timed'' for pope francis. robert finn remained a bishop after a 2012 conviction for failure to report abuse. leader of watchdog group calls the pope's decision ``a good step but just the beginning''
a fan re-edited ``batman v. superman : dawn of justice'' trailer with classic scenes from older ``batman'' and ``superman'' tv and film. adam west and christopher reeve replace ben affleck and henry cavill in the re-imagined trailer.
``the americans'' ends a critically acclaimed third season wednesday. academy of country music awards holds its 50th ceremony sunday on cbs.
dr. doom is seen for the first time in the trailer for the ``fantastic four'' reboot. chris pratt takes the lead in the new trailer for ``jurassic world''
acms celebrated 50 years sunday night. best moments : garth brooks, reba mcentire, taylor swift's mom.
paul mccartney honors ringo starr at rock and roll hall of fame induction ceremony. green day, lou reed, joan jett & the blackhearts also honored.
an author says ``avengers'' director joss whedon and ``cabin'' director drew goddard stole his idea. peter gallagher alleges similarities to his ``the little white trip : a night in the pines'' from 2006.
new line cinema is reportedly planning a mariah carey christmas movie. carey was queen of the'90s, and that decade is totally hot now.
3rd ``tron'' is coming together with ``tron : legacy'' stars returning. olivia wilde and garrett hedlund will reprise their roles. ``tron : legacy'' grossed $ 400 million worldwide, after the 1982 original gained fans online.
gray was arrested on a weapons charge april 12 ; he was dead seven days later. gray was placed inside a police van after his arrest ; it's unclear if anything happened inside the van. gray has a criminal history but it's unclear whether that had anything to do with his arrest, or death.
pope francis played key role in re-establishing diplomatic ties between cuba and u.s.``contacts with the cuban authorities are still in too early a phase,'' vatican spokesman says.
smoke from massive fires in siberia created fiery sunsets in the pacific northwest. atmospheric winds carried smoke from the wildfires across the pacific ocean. smoke particles altered wavelengths from the sun, creating a more intense color.
find the fda's official report for the recalled product. if the product is within the use-by date, it should still be recalled.
mark cuban said people should have their blood tested every quarter. gilbert welch : giving people more tests will increase health spending, but it won't make us healthier.
cyclist wang pingan had his cycle stolen just days before completing an epic ride around china. locked bike was stolen outside an electronics market in shenzhen, guandong province. wang had vowed to complete his journey by foot, but police managed to recover it against the odds.
indonesia protests executions, says didn't receive formal warnings. both women had worked as domestic helpers in saudi arabia before being convicted of murder.
some observers applaud abbott's beer swilling in a pub full of sportsmen. the prime minister last year criticized binge drinking culture in australia.
three british men won't be charged or deported, their lawyer says. they were arrested after plane spotting near fujairah airport and have been in jail since february 22.
six boko haram militants were killed, military spokesman says. hundreds were involved in the raid on a village in far north. boko haram is based in nigeria but has attacked across the border of several neighbors.
commando says air transport was delayed for hours as al-shabaab forces slaughtered students. on april 2, 147 were killed at a university in garissa, kenya, most were students.
the ipad was engraved with ``his holiness francisco'' and ``vatican internet service, march 2013''a harley-davidson the pope donated to charity sold for $ 284,000 last year.
polish prince jan zylinski has challenged ukip leader nigel farage to a duel. in a video, zylinski says he is sick of poles being discriminated against in britain.
italy boasts the highest number of unesco world heritage sites in the world. italy doesn't know how to exploit treasures, and appears not to care about them, writes silvia marchetti.
new neighborhood named carlsberg city set to emerge in copenhagen, denmark. district has been built on site of beer company's former brewery.
the wildfire started in miami-dade county on sunday. by monday night, it had grown to nearly 2,000 acres. the fire was 50 % contained, officials said.
a small boat carrying about 50 migrants left from the area of le borgne, west of cap-haitien wednesday. it got caught in bad weather on its way to turks and caicos.
photographer andres figueroa spent a week in one of the driest places on earth. he took portraits of chileans who dress up in costume for popular religious festivals.
dr. seuss' new book, ``what pet should i get ?'' will have a first printing of 1 million copies. the publisher released a never-before-seen image from inside the book by theodor geisel.
boston marathon takes place monday, two years after bombing, and sentencing phase of trial begins tuesday. kayyem : it wasn't the puritan ethic but good disaster response that kept the marathon bombing from being even worse.
o'malley using youtube to test out attack lines. how clinton's new hire could help keep the obama coalition together. republican concerns about the new 2016 primary calendar.
parents of martin richard argue against death penalty for dzhokhar tsarnaev. the 8-year-old boy was youngest of victims in the boston marathon bombings. sentencing phase for tsarnaev begins next week.
ac/dc drummer phil rudd pleads guilty to threatening to kill and drug charges. court summary revealed that rudd had ordered for his personal assistant to be ``taken out''police found methamphetamine and cannabis in his new zealand home in november.
miller : while the u.s. entangles itself in the nuclear negotiations, iran is gaining a freer hand to assert its regional influence. he says united states is being outfoxed, not outgunned.
an estimated 50,000 americans are newly infected with hiv each year, cdc says. kevin robert frost : syringe exchange programs save millions in hiv treatment costs.
the nuvaring is one of the most popular birth control products on the market. lawsuit cites ``a heightened risk of blood clots associated with the use of nuvaring''maker : ``there is substantial evidence to support the safety and efficacy of nuvaring''
the newly discovered species looks a lot like kermit. you can see its internal organs through the translucent skin on its belly.
three rabbis found guilty of conspiracy to commit kidnapping in new jersey federal court. they were accused of orchestrating kidnapping, torture of jewish men who refused to allow their wives a religious divorce. lawyers for the rabbis said they plan on appealing the verdicts.
a massachusetts jury is deliberating hernandez's case. hernandez is charged with first-degree murder in the killing of odin lloyd.
james best, who played the sheriff on ``the dukes of hazzard,'' died monday at 88. ``hazzard'' ran from 1979 to 1985 and was among the most popular shows on tv.
the crashed plane was a cessna 414, national transportation safety board reports. coach torrey ward, administrator aaron leetch among the 7 killed in the crash. the plane crashed while coming back from the ncaa title game in indianapolis.
an artist apologizes for his lucille ball statue. in a public letter, the sculptor offers to pay for fixes to the statue. the mayor says he's not interested in having the original artist work on the statue.
to understand thursday's attack, one must understand that kenya and al-shabaab are at war. al qaeda's 1998 attack on the u.s. embassy is the single largest, but al-shabaab have killed many more kenyans.
al qaeda fighters attack a prison and other government buildings, freeing many prisoners. government troops clash with the fighters, most of whom flee. yemen is descending into chaos as a shia-sunni conflict draws in regional rivals saudi arabia and iran.
5,500 signatures call for jedi temple after similar petition asked for campus mosque. petition started by a student at dokuz eylul university in the western province of izmir.
frances bean cobain, daughter of the late kurt cobain, spoke to rolling stone about a new film on the nirvana frontman. 22-year-old cobain is an executive producer of the documentary ``montage of heck''she describes growing up with the legacy of her father looming large.
u.n. agency says 900 refugees from yemen have arrived in horn of africa, asks ships in area to be vigilant. who : at least 643 people have been killed, more than 2,000 injured in three weeks. unicef : aid includes medical supplies for up to 80,000 people and more airlifts are planned.
cf-18 hornets bomb a garrison near isis' de facto capital of raqqa, canada says. the canadian military has conducted dozens of strikes against isis in iraq.
officer michael slager's mother says she couldn't watch the video of the incident. slager was fired earlier this week. slager is charged with murder in the death of walter scott.
quarter million people without power in sydney and nearby areas. a large storm system brought damaging winds and flooding to parts of australia. the flooding is affecting public transportation services, residential and coastal areas.
a sexual harassment complaint has been filed against pm john key after a waitress complained about him repeatedly pulling her ponytail. kiwi prime minister accused of pulling a waitress' hair on several occasions despite her obvious discomfort. pm key later apologized, but said that he was merely engaging in ``banter''politicians and public figures have condemned his behavior.
the gofundme campaign has already topped its $ 75,000 goal. justin griner, the dad of ``success kid,'' needs a kidney transplant.
three of the five teens released. one 18-year-old suspect has been charged, report says. australian police said the suspects were allegedly planning an ``isis-inspired'' attack.
jury selection for the aaron hernandez trial started back in january. the jury began its deliberations on tuesday. the case has a complicated cast of characters.
espn reporter britt mchenry caught on video berating a towing company employee. cnn's kelly wallace used the story as a teachable moment for her daughters. wallace : mchenry could learn from other celebrities who responded gracefully in stressful situations.
alfred taubman, who died friday, was active in philanthropy and worth an estimated $ 3.1 billion. amid suburban boom of the'50s, he realized people would need places to shop :''. . we couldn't miss''we was convicted in 2002 of trying to rig auction house commissions ; he maintained he was innocent.
waters in a huge area of the pacific are running 5.5 degrees warmer than normal. marine life that likes cooler water has moved and others that like warm seas are seen in new places. ``the blob'' might be having an effect on rain and snow -- and the west coast drought.
tristan da cunha holds competition for architects and designers. islands are most isolated inhabited archipelago on earth.
police questioned the group about an alleged assault of a walmart employee. a man put a police officer in a headlock and fighting broke out.
the 100th anniversary of the start of the mass killings will be commemorated friday. turkey and others reject the use of the word ``genocide''most estimates of the deaths fall between 600,000 and 1.5 million.
larry upright's family says he would enjoy the request. some vow to honor it, but others say they'll still vote for hillary clinton.
hillary clinton developed a close relationship with the financial world as a new york senator. clinton's allies there are eager to galvanize a broad network of potential donors. her coziness with wall street irritates liberal activists, who are a growing influence in the democratic party.
lewis hamilton will start on pole in china. pushed teammate rosberg into second on the last lap. rosberg refused to shake hamilton's hand afterward.
phnom penh, the cambodian capital, fell to the genocidal khmer rouge 40 years ago today. at least 1.7 million people were killed in the subsequent four years, before the regime was driven out. decades on, the country is still struggling to gain justice for victims and heal from the genocide.
would-be immigrants come from more than 20 countries to north africa to cross mediterranean to europe. they risk their lives crossing deserts and mountains ; many are robbed or cheated as they try to reach the libyan coast.
suspect identified by french authorities as sid ahmed ghlam. prosecutor : someone in syria asked the arrested man to target french churches. evidence connects terror plot suspect to the killing of aurelie chatelain, he says.
``we all share the same pain,'' valerie braham tells memorial day crowd in israel. her husband, philippe braham, was among 17 killed in january's terror attacks in paris. french authorities foil a new terror plot -- a painful reminder of widow's recent loss.
abu khdeir's name is on the memorial wall at jerusalem's mount herzl. his father and a terror victim advocacy group objected to his being included in the list. the palestinian teenager was beaten and burned by three israelis, authorities say.
ben stiller announces that penelope cruz will join cast of ``zoolander 2''``zoolander 2'' is scheduled for release in 2016.
former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh will leave, a source says. ousted leader abdu rabu mansour hadi promises to return. next phase, called ``operation renewal of hope,'' will focus on political process.
in his final known video, adam gadahn called for governments of pakistan and saudi arabia to be overthrown. he was raised in california and said he was of jewish ancestry. he converted to islam in 1995, left u.s. in 1998 and joined al qaeda, becoming a spokesman.
south korean investigators say they have proof that north korea is launching cyberattacks. reports say the north is investing heavily in digital warfare. december attack on banks in south korea caused about $ 820 million worth of damage, a report says.
julian zelizer : in early weeks of the 2016 campaign, candidates and potential contenders have stumbled in small ways. he says chris christie's words about social security and marijuana may haunt him.
hugh rodham's tombstone is found tipped over in scranton, pennsylvania. it was reported two days after hillary clinton announced her presidential bid.
gorilla leaps toward exhibit window and hits it, sending family running. zoo says patrons were never in danger.
tsarnaev family members arrive in boston, but it's not clear if they'll testify. a woman testifies that she had to choose whether to keep her leg ; some other victims had no choice. starting monday, the defense is expected to call witnesses to explain dzhokhar tsarnaev's difficult upbringing.
ocean economic powerhouse valued at $ 24 trillion : wwf report. marco lambertini : ocean plays direct role in livelihoods across globe.
vatanka : tensions between iran and saudi arabia are at an unprecedented level. iran has proposed a four-point plan for yemen but saudis have ignored it. vatanka : saudis have tried to muster a ground invasion coalition but have failed.
ruth ben-ghiat : italy's colonial past plays a key role in the migrant humanitarian disaster in the mediterranean. she says african migrants still bound to histories of exploitation that shaped their home countries long after end of italian rule.
meaghan keeler-pettigrew, stuart bradin : u.s. must rethink special forces. united states is spreading foreign military assistance too thin, they say.
vidarbha, the eastern region of the state of maharashtra, is known as the epicenter of the suicide crisis. farmers are becoming burdened with debt due to falling prices but rising costs.
faa backtracks on saying crew reported a pressurization problem. one passenger lost consciousness. the plane descended 28,000 feet in three minutes.
new orleans bars are smoke-free as of wednesday morning. a lawsuit by harrah's and bar owners seeks to overturn the ban.
indonesia has advised foreign consular officials to travel to indonesia's ``execution island''the 10 death row inmates being held have had their legal bids rejected. they include australian ``bali nine'' members andrew chan and myuran sukumaran.
rebecca francis' photo with a giraffe was shared by ricky gervais. francis was threatened on twitter for the picture. francis, a hunter, said the giraffe was ``close to death'' and became food for locals.
scott kelley, stepfather accused of kidnapping, is arrested at the atlanta airport. mother genevieve kelley's trial is set to begin next month. mary nunes' father says he is ``overjoyed she is alive and back in the us''
the whale, varvara, swam a round trip from russia to mexico, nearly 14,000 miles. the previous record was set by a humpback whale that migrated more than 10,000 miles.
aaron hernandez will serve life in souza-baranowski correctional center outside boston. souza opened in 1998 and is one of the most high-tech jails in the united states. it's also ``dangerous,'' ``sterile'' and ``violent,'' a legal advocate for inmates says.
jurors in sentencing phase in dzhokhar tsarnaev's trial hear of loss. victims testify about the impact of the bombing on their lives.
wei tingting, wang man, zheng churan, li tingting and wu rongrong are free. they will be under police surveillance for a year and have their activities restricted, attorney says. the international community has harshly criticized keeping the women in custody.
u.s. sen. jim inhofe : nuclear is our largest source of carbon-free energy, generating over 60 % of our carbon-free electricity. so why doesn't the president's climate plan, allegedly aimed at reducing carbon emissions, do more with nuclear power ?
in a few years, the military will be unable to recruit enough qualified soldiers because of america's obesity problem. carol costello : we have a serious national security issue at hand, but it's within our control if we could own up to it.
victoria maizes, a doctor, says she avoids girl scout cookies because they contain sugar, fats.  can't scouts promote healthy snacks ?she says pediatricians offer little guidance on nutrition, yet a diet low in sugars, gmo's, transfats, lowers overall mortality.
video shows espn reporter britt mchenry berating and belittling a tow company worker. drexler : she was wrong to act that way, but aren't we too quick to judge without seeing full video ?
walter scott was killed by a south carolina police officer in april. danny cevallos : failure to pay child support should be a civil matter, not a crime.
a businesswoman worries that if hillary clinton becomes president, her hormones will make her go to war. mel robbins : what's scary is that the bias against women in the workplace is still going strong in 2015.
obama recently explained u.s. foreign policy moves on iran and cuba. sager : misguided u.s. leadership and policies are reasons for the enduring tragedy in the middle east.
peter moskos : reserve cop, 73, meant to use a taser on a man, but shot him dead instead.  why was a volunteer cop witha gun in a violent crimes unit ?he says the man may have bought his way in with donations to police.  cops are, and should be, wary of those a little too eager to be police. moskos : right approach is unarmed auxiliary cops, like in nyc, volunteering as a way to connect public to police.
s.e. cupp : clinton making women central to outreach, but she should really focus on men. in 2014 election, overplaying to one gender failed -- particularly with ``war on women''
raul reyes : in seeking latino vote, marco rubio his own worst enemy on two key issues : immigration reform, cuba relations. he says on health care, climate change and other issues, he breaks from latinos' positions.  polls show they don't favor him.
sawyer sweeten played across from his twin brother and their sister as the children of ray and patricia barone. report : sweeten was visiting family in texas and is believed to have shot himself.
nfl investigating why game balls provided by new england patriots for championship game were underinflated. it's not clear when investigation by attorney ted wells will be complete. patriots say they follow the rules and expect to be vindicated and get an apology.
police say the thieves gained entry through the building's communal elevator shaft. police give no value of the amount taken in the heist in london's jewelry district. there's no evidence of forced entry to the building, police say.
british tabloid releases video it says shows the robbery being carried out. british police say they didn't respond to a burglar alarm in jewelry district. police give no value of the amount taken in the heist in london's jewelry district.
loeb says he filed the lawsuit and doesn't want want money from his ``ex''nick loeb reportedly wants to prevent vergara from destroying the embryos. vergara spoke of freezing embryos with loeb in a 2013 interview.
april 20 marks 5 years since the bp oil spill. at the time, there were dire predictions for the environment. today, it is still too soon to know the long-term impact.
5 suspects arrested in attack on kenyan campus, official says. student tells cnn of smearing herself with blood to escape death. al-shabaab gunmen opened fire, and 147 people died.
police : some suspects involved in pakistan blast that killed, injured more than 300. evidence suggests vatican was discussed as a possible target in march 2010, police say. state news : some members of alleged terrorist cell had direct contact with osama bin laden.
collector says he bought the outfit as it was about to be thrown away. vivien leigh wore it in several key scenes in the 1939 movie.
african students and car enthusiasts are creating eco-friendly cars. nigerian students will compete in an ``eco-marathon'' in may.
ugandan ashish thakkar built a vast business empire. the entrepreneur says the answer to unemployment lies in nurturing small businesses. africa's lack of legacy systems has sped up innovation on the continent.
a top official with president dilma rousseff's ruling party is arrested in bribery probe. joao vaccari neto denies wrongdoing, says all donations were legal. hundreds of thousands of brazilians have protested against rousseff in the last few months.
miller : the former secretary of state has to decide whether she's going to differ with barack obama's handling of foreign policy. he says her experience overseas could be an asset as long as she doesn't get ensnared by controversy over obama policies.
white house weighing whether obama should meet with raul castro. a serious congressional ripple effect from the menendez indictment ?it's decision time for gop operatives as the 2016ers get ready to launch.
almost 2 feet of ash fell in some areas. authorities evacuate 4,400 people. the last time calbuco erupted was 1972.
hoesik is the korean tradition of eating and drinking together. anthony bourdain travels to korea for the season five premiere of ``parts unknown''
gov. mike pence extends public health emergency by 30 days. 129 cases of hiv have been confirmed since mid-december. more than 4,300 needles have been distributed through temporary needle exchange program.
cory booker : the unfortunate reality is that the united states leads the world in incarceration, not education. at the same time, we are losing the increasingly important race to educate our citizens.
jake tapper will add the sunday show ``state of the union'' to his portfolio at cnn. tapper also anchors ``the lead'' on weekdays.
after calling off its air campaign, saudi arabia resumes airstrikes in yemen. no casualties are reported, but 3 houthi military compounds were destroyed. saudi airstrikes resumed after rebel forces attacked a yemeni military brigade.
the ramp agent fell asleep in the plane's cargo hold. he can no longer work on alaska airlines flights.
the international community is calling for the release of the five women. chinese authorities detained them last month over their campaign for gender equality.
martha pease : hillary clinton got her presidential bid launched by reframing who she is, what she's about. she says clinton took a low-key, unconventional approach, unlike marco rubio's standard announcement.
bill richardson : u.s announced plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 26 % to 28 % below 2005 levels by 2025. he says china, india, major corporations, cities among those already setting goals for cutting emissions.  u.s. must lead in this effort.
ahmed farouq was a leader in al qaeda's india branch. he was killed in a u.s. counterterrorism airstrike in january. like adam gadahn, farouq was american and part of al qaeda.
a japanese court has rejected a petition by residents to delay the reactivation of reactors in the country's southwest. the reopening of two other nuclear reactors in fukui was recently blocked by a japanese court over safety fears. japan's 48 nuclear reactors have been offline in the wake of the 2011 fukushima disaster.
sissa abu dahou recently was honored as one of egypt's ideal mothers. but for 43 years she has dressed as a man so she could work in the conservative country. ``people talked but i said i decided to be a man so i can take care of my small daughter,'' says dahou.
jared leto unveiled as the joker for the first time on twitter. leto stars in 2016's ``suicide squad''
sen. elizabeth warren has publicly criticized so-called ``fast track'' trade authority. sally kohn : why does president obama call her wrong, and why is hillary clinton equivocating ?
robert blecker : in sentencing phase, the prosecution lays out wealth of evidence that dzhokhar tsarnaev deserves penalty reserved for the worst of the worst. he predicts most of the jury will vote for a death sentence, but it must be unanimous ; therefore, tsarnaev will most likely get life in prison.
classic comic book ``the dark knight returns'' is getting a second sequel. legendary comics writer frank miller is returning to the story that made him famous.
georgia state patrol provides more details of crash. georgia southern university mourns five nursing students killed in auto accident. five cars and two tractor-trailers were involved in crash on interstate 16.
molly schuyler scarfed down three 72-ounce steaks sunday in amarillo, texas. the sacramento woman, 35, is a professional on the competitive-eating circuit.
``we're all equal, and we all deserve the same fair trial,'' says one juror. the months-long murder trial of aaron hernandez brought jurors together. foreperson : ``it's been an incredibly emotional toll on all of us''
u.s. hostage warren weinstein is believed to have been accidentally killed in counter-terrorism strike. peter bergen : u.s. should rethink hostage policy to increase chances of freeing those held.
the fda may take a more hands-on approach to regulating homeopathic medicine. it does not go through the same approval process as over-the-counter drugs. some studies suggest homeopathic medicine is no more effective than placebos.
america has the highest incarceration rate in the world, holding 25 % of the world's prisoners. evan feinberg : we must change the dismal status quo with specific solutions.
profile in courage award is going to a republican congressman who risked his career while recognizing the danger of climate change. authors : addressing climate challenge is today's moon shot, an enormous effort that will pay big benefits.
three passengers report a loss of consciousness on skywest flight. but officials say there is no evidence of a pressurization problem.
about a year after al qaeda took warren weinstein hostage, his family paid a ransom, a pakistani source says. the captors demanded that other prisoners be released, the source says. weinstein, an american aid worker, was killed in a drone strike in january, the u.s. says.
18 dead and 5 being treated, nigeria says. locally brewed alcohol is suspected. some patients have died within hours.
slovenian archaeologist ivan šprajc discovers ancient mayan cities in the jungles of mexico. his discoveries could help explain why so many mayan cities were abandoned before the arrival of the spaniards.
a russian presidential aide says kim will be in moscow for may 9 victory day celebrations, news agency reports. this victory day marks the 70 years since the soviet victory over germany in world war ii.
april 25, 2015 marks the centenary of the start of the gallipoli campaign in turkey during wwi. anzac troops stormed the beaches at gallipoli, beginning a bloody eight-month campaign.
ngo where lo porto works describes him as a lively, positive man with lots of friends. london university says he was a ``popular student. . committed to helping others''he was killed in a u.s. counterterrorism strike in january, authorities say.
israeli law says the prime minister must form his government in less than 42 days. netanyahu cites government stability and reaching ``agreement on important issues'' as reasons he needs additional time.
mackey predicted what would happen to iraq if the u.s. invaded and deposed saddam hussein. she also wrote a book credited with helping bridge gap between arabs and americans.
earthquake scientists have been expecting major event in nepal since 1934. population density, weak building infrastructure amplified damage, usgs spokesman says. ``this event, while large and tragic, is not unusual'' in region, geological engineer says.
officials say the investigation originated from intercepted chatter. possible threat focused on parts of california, one says.
she hosted a controversial discussion on the disappearance of people. she knew what she was doing was dangerous and had received death threats before. mahmud loved books, jimi hendrix and discussions about human rights.
``grey's anatomy'' is in its 11th season. derek shepherd, played by patrick dempsey, died after a car crash.
roxanne jones : jury right to find hernandez guilty, but the waste of life for player and his victim is tragic. she says nfl, patriots knew his troubled past, but could not have predicted his actions, and both handled case well.
massacre of 1.5 million ethnic armenians under the ottoman empire is widely acknowledged by scholars as a genocide. turkish government officially denies it saying hundreds of thousands of turkish muslims and armenian christians died in intercommunal violence.
fethiye cetin learned of her armenian heritage from her grandmother. the grandmother survived the 1915 killings, assimilated, then kept her real identity hidden. cetin, others want turkey to recognize the killings as a genocide ; the government has refused. in the last decade a more public dialogue on the subject has begun in turkey.
dawn mackeen : 2015 marks 100th anniversary of slaughter of armenians by ottoman empire.  kim kardashian has used fame to spotlight this. she says armenian community has long sought global recognition of the atrocity, but it took a kardashian to catapult it into the news.
wealthy africans are investing in some of london's most upscale real estate. some nigerians are spending as much as $ 37 million on houses. property experts say african investment in london is set to grow.
social media largely supports jenner. more people seemed intrigued that he's a republican.
oskar gröning is on trial over his alleged role in deaths at auschwitz. lawrence douglas : other mass atrocities still await moment of moral reckoning.
how does isis govern ?robert downey jr. isn't the only celebrity to walk out of an interview.
this page includes the show transcript. use the transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. at the bottom of the page, comment for a chance to be mentioned on cnn student news.  you must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the cnn student news roll call.
freddie gray's death has fueled protests in baltimore. demonstrators accuse police of using too much force and say officers should face charges.
the 14-year-old had communicated with terror suspects in australia, authorities said. police : the teenager encouraged others to attack a parade and behead someone in australia.
a magnitude-7. 8 earthquake struck near kathmandu, nepal. carolyn miles : many survivors will have nowhere to go.
rare set of female quintuplets was born this month in houston, texas. the girls were born via c-section at 28 weeks and two days. another family kept the news of twins secret until birth.
92 percent of americans say it is important to get an annual head-to-toe physical exam. randomized trials going back to the 1980s just don't support that belief.
companies including philip morris and r.j. reynolds in suit alleging violation of free speech. in march, the fda issued guidance about changes to tobacco product labels. if significant changes are made to a product's label, like color or a logo, the product requires new approval.
april 23 marks 10 years since first video, ``me at the zoo,'' was uploaded to youtube. site gets billions of views every day ; 300 hours of uploads every minute. new studios being opened for budget filmmakers to improve quality of output.
two neuroscientists have conducted brain imaging to examine moments of clarity. sudden ``insights'' are otherwise known as ``eureka'' or ``aha'' moments. we can increase our chance of these insights with a variety of daily changes.
from belfies to butt implants, the kardashian clan has inspired many a trend. the latest : kylie jenner's pouty lips spark the #kyliejennerchallenge.
veteran time magazine film critic richard corliss died thursday night in new york city. corliss reviewed more than 1,000 movies and authored four books on film.
chris evans and jeremy renner get in hot water after a joke made about ``avengers'' character black widow. renner called scarlett johansson's character a ``slut'' and evans referred to her as a ``whore''the actors issued an apology on thursday.
geoffrey lewis appeared in many movies, tv shows. actor was frequently collaborator with clint eastwood. actress juliette lewis, his daughter, called him ``my hero''
the critically acclaimed ``daredevil'' will be back for season 2. charlie cox plays a blind attorney by day who is a superhero by night.
common joins ``suicide squad'' cast, which already includes will smith, jared leto. film is about supervillains who team up.
fox plans to make a tv movie of ``the rocky horror picture show''some of the producers behind the original film are involved. tv is in the midst of a musical craze.
alice barker was a dancer in the 1930s and'40s. thanks to filmmakers, barker -- now 102 -- finally saw herself dance.
david chase walks through the ending of ``the sopranos''the use of particular shots and ``don't stop believin''' build tension. chase still doesn't reveal tony soprano's fate.
documents show that officers thought robert bates got special treatment. the reserve deputy has pleaded not guilty to charge of second-degree manslaughter. bates says meant to use his taser but shot eric harris by mistake.
15 buffalo are shot on friday after escaping the day before from a farm in schodack, new york. police helicopters fly overhead and nearby schools put on alert in the final moments of the chase. the herd breaks through three layers of barbed wire fencing and crosses the hudson river during the escape.
florida a&m drum major robert champion died in 2011 after a hazing ritual aboard a bus. a jury convicted the last three defendants of manslaughter and hazing with the result of death.
pilot stopped during security checks as the flight prepared to depart on saturday night. cathay pacific runs regular flights between its hong kong hub and london. the male pilot has been bailed pending an investigation.
massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake has struck nepal near its capital, kathmandu. as the death toll rises, witnesses describe devastation and panic.
anthony bourdain teaches anderson cooper a korean recipe. budae-jiigae is a stew made with all sorts of canned meat, including spam.
a new tsa report advises against full screening of airport workers. the report says such measures would not lower the overall risk to the public.
americans on the no-fly list will now get info about why they've been banned from flights. aclu says the policy still denies ``meaningful notice, evidence, and a hearing''
willis never trademarked her most-famous work, calling it ``my gift to the city''she created some of the city's most famous neon work.
what do funeral strippers, a quadruple rainbow and kylie jenner have in common ? they all trended this week !
anthony doerr's ``all the light we can not see'' wins pulitzer for fiction. elizabeth kolbert's ``the sixth extinction'' wins general nonfiction prize.
a mom of two got upset when ``big hero 6'' fabric didn't include the two female characters. another mom called attention to gender stereotypes on a toms web page. in both cases, the companies responded quickly to answer parents' concerns.
this is week three of an ongoing series : a catholic reads the bible.  read week one and week two. this week's reading is a lot to take in.  literally.
mary magdalene is one of the bible's most complicated characters. mark goodacre, who appears in the series, answers your questions about her.
joel burger and ashley king have been engaged since october. their engagement photo with a burger king sign attracted, and the company offered to pay for their wedding.
vijay chokal-ingam says he pretended to be black to get into medical school. he says the experience showed him that affirmative action is a flawed system.
the overturned car was smoldering on a new jersey roadway when police arrived. it burst into flames shortly after they pulled out the unconscious driver.
obama promised armenian-americans he would call the atrocity genocide during the 2008 campaign. the white house views turkey as a more crucial ally than armenia. pope francis, actor george clooney, and even the kardashians have taken the moral position, calling it the armenian genocide.
experts have raised red flags about the warming of planet by 2 degrees celsius. john sutter : this one little number is significant as a way to focus world's attention on problem.
ohio gov. john kasich : washington is gridlocked, but states can make a difference. he says ohio has gone from a budget deficit to surplus, from losing jobs to creating them.
gloria borger : hillary clinton's team is doing all it can to make her appear relatable to ordinary people. she asks if the most famous woman in the world can really connect with ordinary voters ?
most americans say businesses should not discriminate against same-sex weddings. public opinion has shifted on the issue since last fall. indiana passed and later changed its religious freedom law after public outcry.
australian and philippines governments given notice their nationals will be executed in 72 hours. they include philippines maid mary jane velos and australians andrew chan and myuran sukumaran. australia has repeatedly appealed for clemency for the pair.
the two moms from ``big bang theory'' guest star this week. ``backstrom,'' ``blue bloods'' are among the week's season finales. comedy ``younger'' is gaining big buzz.
dr. kristen lindsey has since removed the post of her holding the dead cat by an arrow. her employer fired her ; the sheriff's office is investigating. activist offers $ 7,500 reward.
coast guard says about 50 people were rescued from mobile bay. more than 100 sailboats took part in the dauphin island race, an annual event.
concerns growing for people trapped higher up the mountain. helicopters begin airlifting injured people from the base camp in nepal. climber reports at least 17 dead ; many others injured, missing or stuck.
promoter : manny pacquiao's has between 800 and 900 friends who want tickets to historic las vegas clash. kenny bayless named as referee in mayweather-pacquiao's bout, dubbed the ``fight of the century''
the two males arrested are 21 and 15 years old, st. louis police say in a tweet. a video that went viral showed three black males attacking a white man.
the earthquake that struck nepal has left thousands of nepalis without shelter. torrential rains making situation worse ; food and drinking water supplies could become a serious issue soon. it's unclear how bad conditions are closer to the epicenter.
police say they can't confirm whether jones was involved in the crash, which injured a pregnant woman. jones is the reigning ufc light heavyweight champion.
funeral strippers in rural china are the latest focus of the country's crackdown on vice. in some areas of china, the hiring of professional mourners is commonplace, but some performances are getting racy. government report says that stripteases undermine ``the cultural value of the entertainment business''
defense expected to show dzhokhar tsarnaev as a puppet of his dominant older brother. a deadlocked jury would result in an automatic life sentence for tsarnaev.
for 25 years, ali addeh refugee camp has been a holding point for those fleeing into djibouti. many come from somalia, ethiopia and especially eritrea -- which is ruled by a one-party state. despite the risks, eritrean refugees say they'd risk their lives with people smugglers.
warren weinstein's wife says the family is still searching for answers. officials say weinstein and another al qaeda hostage were accidentally killed in a u.s. drone strike. gunmen abducted the usaid contractor from his home in pakistan in 2011.
the italian coast guard says 8,480 migrants were rescued from friday to monday. save the children said tuesday 400 migrants could be missing from a boat. the italian coast guard can not confirm that report.
tremors subside finally in kathmandu, but after-effects of saturday's staggering tragedy will be felt for years. arwa damon and gul tuysuz take tour of devastated city as locals struggle to cope. workers dig painstakingly, slowly removing piles of stone and debris.
trial for aurora theater shooting suspect begins monday. survivors say the shooting changed their lives, but doesn't define it.
rapper lil wayne not injured after shots fired at his tour bus on an atlanta interstate, police say. no one has been arrested in the shooting.
india has launched a massive aid mission to its earthquake-hit neighbor nepal. disaster relief troops and tons of food, water and medicine have been flown in.
gray's family asked there be no protests ; they condemned violence. community leaders and brave residents got in between rioters and police.
the mom saw her son on tv throwing rocks at police, cnn affiliate reports. police praise her actions.
a texas a&m galveston professor said in an email to students he would fail the entire class. university officials won't necessarily stand by failing grades, cnn affiliate kprc reports.
off-duty member of the uniformed division of secret service arrested friday. police said he was charged with trying to break into a woman's residence.
death toll in nepal climbs above 4,600, officials say, with more than 9,000 injured. shattered villages near epicenter are hard to reach, says aid worker in the area. more bad weather is forecast for the region in the coming days.
roads out of kathmandu are damaged but passable. even close to the capital, aid is taking forever to trickle through. east of the city, the village of ravi opi counts the cost of devastation.
military has not confirmed if any rescued girls came from 2014 chibok mass abduction. nigerian troops raided boko haram camps in northeastern nigeria, military says.
nepali pranksters make hidden camera videos of awkward social situations. the three-person team was filming as the nepal earthquake began.
calls for lee wan-koo to resign began after south korean tycoon sung woan-jong was found hanging from a tree in seoul. sung, who was under investigation for fraud and bribery, left a note listing names and amounts of cash given to top officials.
peggy drexler : in interview to promote movie, robert downey jr. walked out after being asked personal questions. she says his behavior was rude, demeaning to the interviewer, who was just doing his job.
baby sonit awal found in rubble of nepal earthquake, sunday morning. spent 22 hours buried under his home after 7.8-magnitude quake.
what to expect if bernie sanders takes the presidential plunge. biden's and kasich's ``wait and see'' 2016 strategies. gop recruiting senate candidates for 2016 in nevada and colorado.
the sentences came after a trial in pakistan, a judge says. malala yousafzai is an outspoken advocate for the education of girls. she was attacked in pakistan in 2012.
indian air force and nepalese army medical team launch rescue mission to bring injured people to hospitals in kathmandu. forshani tamang's family carried her for four hours to reach help after she was wounded when their home was destroyed.
thousands remain missing in nepal after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck. social media has helped people overseas tracked down their loved ones in nepal. technology has helped those stranded after the quake reach out for help.
despite pleas for mercy, indonesia executed eight prisoners on wednesday. included two of the ``bali nine,'' convicted drug traffickers from australia. executions will damage relations between countries, but public image will take longer to heal.
indonesia executed eight prisoners including two australians on wednesday. two of ``bali nine'' were killed despite australia's pleas for mercy. all around the world, innocent people being killed by the state in our name, writes mark beeson.
prosecutors get investigative report a day early, but don't expect immediate word on charges. attorney general : we're continuing ``careful and deliberate examination of the facts''gray family was told ``answers were not going to come quickly,'' and that's fine, attorney says.
german police say they think they ``have thwarted an islamist attack,'' interior minister for hesse state says. german terrorism researcher : couple accused of planning bomb attack on bicycle race near frankfurt.
death toll rises to more than 6,100. pemba tamang, 15, shows no apparent signs of serious injury after rescue. u.s. special forces helicopter 30, including 3 americans, to safety.
prosecutor marilyn mosby has only been on the job since january. she comes from a long line of police officers. ``i think that she will follow where the evidence leads.  i do not think she will follow just public opinion,'' says a supporter.
kim bok-dong is determined to share her story of sexual slavery until she's no longer physically able. kim was held prisoner by the japanese military in a ``comfort station'' for five years, raped ceaselessly. she says she won't rest until she receives a formal apology from the japanese government.
about a dozen native american actors walk off set of adam sandler comedy, says report. actors say satirical western's script is insulting to native americans and women.
japanese prime minister shinzo abe will address congress on wednesday. paul sracic : abe has a lot riding on tpp trade agreement.
a group of fighters in afghanistan is filmed by a cnn cameraman parading isis flags. u.s. official : isis militants have ``no military capability'' at present, but are trying to recruit disillusioned taliban in several areas. rivalry between isis and the taliban in afghanistan is fierce enough to mean the isis fighters could be killed for brandishing the flag.
gabriel salvador set up an initial meeting between a tv exec and manny pacquiao's trainer. salvador is an actor and waiter at craig's restaurant in los angeles.
``i had never seen a judge conduct himself in that way,'' defendant's lawyer says. a judge reduces prison sentences for 3 educators in the atlanta public schools cheating scandal. ``i'm not comfortable with it,'' judge jerry baxter said of the original longer sentences.
olivia munn will play psylocke in ``x-men : apocalypse'' film. psylocke trended for hours on twitter after director bryan singer announced casting.
beginning friday, some ranks of the indianapolis police department will wear white shirts. police say the change in attire is not related to any specific incident. the new uniform shirt color is aimed at ensuring accountability.
wave of deadly anti-immigrant violence has caused thousands to flee their homes in south africa. immigrants fear further attacks despite clamp down by authorities. ``how am i going to pay the rent and feed my wife ?'' says one man.
homosexuality is illegal in iran. denizli, turkey, is host to hundreds of gays and lesbians from iran. photographer laurence rasti traveled to turkey to explore her fascination with identity issues.
renner showed off his vocal skills. he sang an ed sheeran hit.
former rap mogul marion ``suge'' knight is accused of murder in a videotaped hit-and-run. judge declines to reduce his bail from $ 10 million.
actors kristin chenoweth and alan cumming are set to host the 2015 tony awards ceremony. best play nominees : `the curious incident of the dog in the night-time,'' ``disgraced,'' ``hand to god'' and ``wolf hall parts one & two''the awards will be presented on june 7 in a ceremony airing live at 8 p.m. on cbs.
leto will play the clown prince of crime in 2016's ``suicide squad''the first picture of leto in character led to a series of spoof photos.
the rapper/entrepreneur went ``stream of consciousness'' on twitter. he asked users to be patient with tidal, his new music streaming service. a parody account was set up to mock his hashtag.
a second ``fifty shades'' film will be released in 2017, a third in 2018. director sam taylor-johnson won't be returning.
people magazine has named actress sandra bullock the most beautiful woman in the world. ``be a good person ; be a good mom ; do a good job with the lunch,'' she says.
stephen hawking is a famed cosmologist and mathematician. he sings monty python's ``galaxy song'' in a hilarious new video.
defense seeks to make case to spare life of convicted boston bomber dzhokhar tsarnaev. defense : brother tamerlan, who was killed during police showdown, was obsessed with jihad. dzhokhar tsarnaev was well-liked, polite and docile, according to witnesses.
as william and kate await the arrival of their second child, speculation is rife as to what he or she will be named. royal expert victoria arbiter argues that naming a newborn princess after diana would put too much pressure on her.
british monarchy's 1,000-year history has seen 34 kings and just 6 queens on the throne. victoria arbiter argues the royal family needs a baby girl to fill the female void of future generations.
iran's elite quds force is training, advising and supporting iraqi shia militias in their fight against isis. iranian officials say they would like better cooperation with the u.s., but say trust between the nations is lacking.
bruce jenner's second wife linda thompson says she learned of his ``gender issues'' during their marriage. she says she can breathe easier now that he can be ``who he authentically is''
jay parini : bernie sanders, who is running for president, is a liberal long shot, but he's also a populist truth-teller who speaks without fear. he says the vermont senator could help move hillary clinton to left on progressive issues.
johnita due : the anger and frustration i saw in 1980 miami is repeated in 2015 baltimore. she says teaching the power of nonviolent protest is essential.
julian zelizer : washington is gridlocked and leans conservative. but liberals can launch social programs at lower levels, zelizer says. trying programs out locally can set groundwork for washington action in coming years, he says.
journalist sunir pandey was visiting relatives with nepal's 7.8 magnitude quake struck. he says they ran to shelter under a concrete beam and prayed, as dust rose from the rubble.
fabien le coq took photos of trees from the bottom looking up. the branches take on their own patterns in the sky : ``each tree has its own personality''
april 19 marks 20 years since the oklahoma city bombing. the bombing was carried out by domestic terrorists. today's domestic terror threats range from eco-terrorists to anti-government extremists.
mui thomas has a rare genetic condition that leaves her skin raw and open to infection. abandoned at birth, tina and rog thomas adopted mui. she's now 22, a rugby referee and an inspirational speaker.
the town had recently been freed from the boko haram terror group. volunteer from burial :'' we collected over 400 corpses from the streets and in shallow graves''
south africa marks 21 years since the first free election. nation celebrates amid recent violent attack on immigrants.
head of libyan army tells cnn libyan authorities have not been consulted. gen. khalifa haftar says libya will ``look after'' its interests. solution to migration problem requires lifting of sanctions, general says.
the prosecutor looking at allegations against argentina's president says no crime committed. the original prosecutor who brought the case was found dead in january.
cartel violence helped make juarez the murder capital of the world five years ago. but the murder rate in the city has declined rapidly since 2010. now city leaders are working to bring visitors and foreign investment back to juarez.
abe did express ``eternal condolences'' about the loss of american lives in world war ii. but he has been evasive and ambiguous about embracing responsibility for japan's wartime actions. kingston : he is putting his personal agenda on history ahead of the national interest.
progress 59 spacecraft will re-enter earth's atmosphere in a week, russia space agency says. nasa : russian flight controllers have been trying to make contact with the unmanned space freighter. space station crew can manage without supplies carried by the spacecraft, nasa says.
nato is holding huge war games exercises off the coast of scotland. alliance says planning started long before russia renewed its status as the alliance's chief adversary. but commanding officer says russia's behavior is an added motivation to do well in these exercises.
the israeli military says the militants were trying to plant a bomb. the men crossed from syria, israel says.
jean nidetch started weight watchers in 1963. nidetch's philosophy : ``it's choice -- not chance -- that determines your destiny''
a boston-area dog ate three of her owner's wristwatches. a veterinarian removed about 1 lb.  of watch parts from her stomach. mocha the doberman is now doing well.
``rosie the riveter'' appeared on the cover of the saturday evening post on may 29, 1943. mary doyle keefe was a 19-year-old telephone operator at the time.
26-year-old atlanta woman uses a mason jar as a trash can. she has produced about as much waste in six months as an average person does in less than a day. she strives to live a `zero waste' lifestyle.
a logic question about ``cheryl's birthday'' goes viral. the clues give just enough information to eliminate most possibilities. it spread after a singapore television host posted it to facebook.
kate parker is the photographer and mother behind ``strong is the new pretty''the photo series shows her messy, wild daughters as they are, parker said.
john roberts is at judicial crossroads as high court to hear key same-sex marriage case. case could decide whether same-sex couples nationwide have constitutional right to marry. chief justice disappointed conservatives earlier when he helped uphold obamacare.
a magnitude-7. 8 earthquake struck nepal on saturday. colin stark : we knew this disaster would come.
ben powers joined the cast of ``good times'' for its sixth and final season. he played thelma's husband keith anderson.
coloring books made for adults are popular on amazon's bestselling books list. books with calming, meditative and spiritual themes appeal to adults looking to unwind.
heavy drinking among americans rose 17.2 percent between 2005 and 2012. the increase is driven largely by women's drinking habits. it's now more acceptable for women to drink the way men traditionally have, says one expert.
teen allowed to return home now that her chemotherapy is complete. `cassandra' was diagnosed with hodgkin's lymphoma in september. teen was in temporary custody of the connecticut department of children and families.
during the masters, jordan spieth demonstrated optimal movement to enhance swing power and fluid control. when golfers have mobility limitations they compensate with their low back and knees, which often leads to pain and injury.
roseanne barr told the daily beast that she is slowly going blind. barr said she has macular degeneration and glaucoma.
subjects taking acetaminophen reacted less strongly to both pleasant and unpleasant photos. each week, 52 million americans use the pain reliever. unknown whether other pain products produce the same effect.
barr has macular degeneration and glaucoma, eye diseases that get progressively worse and can steal vision. the risk for both diseases goes up for everyone after age 60. sun exposure can up the risk for glaucoma and macular degeneration.
hawaii's legislature passes a bill raising the legal age for buying tobacco to 21. the bill is now before gov. david ige, whose signature would make it law. most states allow tobacco sales to anyone 18 and older.
the number of new hiv infections in indiana has grown to 142 cases. some families in isolated communities use illegal drugs and share needles as a ``community activity,'' a health official says. public health officials urge vigilance to stop the outbreak from gaining ground.
the cdc says ``the risk to humans is low,'' but, as always, they are preparing for the worst case. you can't get bird flu from eating poultry or eggs. at least 100 people who worked with the sick birds are being monitored for any sign of sickness. so far 3.5 million birds have been euthanized.
several of nepal's best known landmarks have been destroyed by the earthquake of april 25. but outside the capital kathmandu there is hope that many have survived.
arkansas woman finds a 3.69-carat diamond in arkansas state park. crater of diamonds is the planet's only public diamond search site.
lz granderson : people keep looking for new reasons to validate apathy and explain away racism. but what happened in baltimore didn't come up overnight ; artist jacob lawrence depicted the same story in 1940s.
russia says kim jong un has canceled trip to moscow. frida ghitis : gauging kim's state of mind no easy task.
malik ghat is a wholesale flower market in india that attracts more than 2,000 sellers each day. photographer ken hermann spent 10 days at the market photographing his project ``flower man''
lewis hamilton took victory for the silver arrows at the chinese grand prix. nico rosberg claims hamilton ruined his race by driving slowly.
irwin horwitz threatens to fail his entire class. his fiery email goes viral ; he now wonders if the unwanted attention will affect his career.
toshiba tests robotic greeter at upscale tokyo department store. more japanese businesses are testing out robots as possible solution to japan's shrinking workforce.
singer-songwriter joni mitchell is still hospitalized. her longtime friend leslie morris wants to be appointed her conservator.
the died of cancer at his home in santa monica, california. he usually took a back seat to the younger, more glamorous characters on the show.
e! plans to air a new jenner reality show this summer. it will follow his transition from male to female.
some of baltimore's unrest may have been inspired by the ``purge'' movies. movies are about a dystopian america where all crime is temporarily legal.
a trip to the town of gorkha shows the human toll of the earthquake. international teams are assisting nepalese medical staff, officials.
authors warn president obama must be clear about radical islam threat. al qaeda still a looming threat, they say.
tanka maya sitoula was at home in kathmandu, nepal, when deadly quake struck. she was trapped inside the ruins of her wrecked home for 36 hours.
freddie gray died on sunday after slipping into a coma. he was arrested a week earlier under murky circumstances.
david wheeler : corinthian, considered a ``predator'' school, will shut down campuses. wheeler : students of for-profit colleges are hapless victims ; their debts should be forgiven.
david bianculli : correspondents' dinner, and cecily strong as host, were mostly weak, but obama had some funny zingers. he says ``anger translator'' bit was funny, but crowd was tough on strong as event went on and on.
errol louis : new book to detail alleged conflicts of interest with foreign donors to clinton family charities. he says without smoking gun, it's likely not election deal-breaker for americans worried about issues like economy, jobs, schools. louis : more notable is mismanagement, ethical history of clinton charities.
tsa received more than 30,000 claims of missing valuables between 2010-2014. most of the missing valuables were packed in checked luggage. miami-dade police set up hidden cameras as part of sting.
next month's visit to moscow by the north korean leader is off. this victory day marks the 70 years since the soviet victory over germany in world war ii.
jeffrey dahmer's killer tells new york post he did it because of the convict's creepy practical jokes. dahmer's former minister tells the paper he'd say to guard, ``i bite''
volvo says it will begin exporting chinese-built cars to the u.s. in may. it's the first time ``made in china'' cars will be available in u.s. showrooms. but it's unlikely that chinese car brands will take on developed markets.
many large chinese cities ration license plates as they look for a solution to gridlocked roads and pollution. it means many prospective car owners have to bid in license auctions. but hybrid vehicles automatically qualify for a license plate.
``there is still smoke on and off,'' says resident with distant view. the volcano erupts for third time since april 22. about 1,500 people are evacuated, an official says, according to cnn chile.
maickel melamed, who has muscular dystrophy, took part in the 2015 boston marathon. he completed the race 20 hours after the start. despite rainy weather, fans and friends cheered for the 39-year-old.
david a. clarke jr. and jonathan thompson : why does google have an app that ambushes police ?with waze, we are confronted with a tool that can be lethal to police officers and deputies.
oscar-winning cinematographer andrew lesnie has died. he is best known for ``lord of the rings,'' ``the hobbit'' and ``babe''
beloved children's performer lois lilienstein has died. she was a member of cbc and nickelodeon tv stars sharon, lois and bram. cnn independently confirmed with sharon and bram's manager that lilienstein passed away at 78 of a a rare cancer.
johnny kemp is ``believed to have drowned at a beach in montego bay,'' police say. he is best known for the 1988 hit ``just got paid''
``when a man loves a woman'' singer percy sledge dies at 73. sledge died tuesday morning in baton rouge, louisiana. ``when a man loves a woman'' is cornerstone of soul music, much covered and much played.
timberlake and biel welcome son silas randall timberlake. the couple announced the pregnancy in january.
the network has reportedly greenlit the tell-all. lifetime previously did an unauthorized movie on ``saved by the bell''
`avengers : age of ultron' hits theaters may 1. critic : movie doesn't quite measure up to the original from 2012.
the film is out in theaters today. co-star paul walker died during production. critics say ``furious 7'' is bittersweet and ``plenty of crazy fun''
british actress takes fhm's top spot in the list of 100 sexiest women in the world. people's most beautiful woman is nowhere on the list.
uss independence was sunk in 1951 after weapons tests. carrier was close-in guinea pig to two atomic bomb tests. agency : ship looks remarkably intact 2,600 feet below surface of the pacific ocean.
southwest airlines tops consumer reports' survey, with the most seats available. jetblue is at the bottom of the list but ranks high in customer satisfaction.
errol louis : new ag loretta lynch will try to get cops to improve community relations, end abusive practices. he says baltimore case shows too many local departments not getting message. lynch will have to apply range of tough measures to fix this, louis says.
a girl is seized by authorities who thought she was the daughter of a woman in houston. dna tests show she is not. the mother of alondra luna nuñez says : ``they stole my child''
sally kohn : supreme court seems to have increasingly become a place for partisan theatrics. she says marriage equality arguments seemed even more shaped by politics than the law.
koch brothers removing checkbox on criminal records from job applications. authors : major companies are recognizing that those with criminal pasts can be productive workers.
uk tennis star andy murray wed his long-term girlfriend, kim sears, in dunblane, scotland. saturday's event has been dubbed ``the royal wedding of scotland''
amanda curtis, ceo of a fashion company in new york, posted a picture of four rainbows to twitter. ``i had a small moment of awe,'' she said.
gulnaz was jailed after the attack as her rapist was married. her case gained international attention ; prompted a presidential pardon. she was forced to marry her attacker or face disgrace.
kabul faces uncertain future as nato presence -- and the money that came with it -- fades away. interpreters are out of work, nato trucks sit idle on roads, restaurants are empty.
simon brann thorpe's project makes real-life soldiers resemble toy soldiers. he shot the images in western sahara, a disputed region of northwestern africa.
an attorney for freddie gray's family alleges that police are involved in a cover-up. there are ongoing administrative and criminal investigations. baltimore's mayor promises to get the bottom of what happened.
video of toya graham going to a protest and forcefully removing her son went viral, drew a lot of praise. the single mother of six tells cnn her son was scolded that he wasn't brought up that way. michael singleton says he knows his mom was trying to protect him.
etan patz disappeared in 1979 ; his face appeared on milk cartons all across the united states. his case marked a time of heightened awareness of crimes against children. pedro hernandez confessed three years ago to the killing.
opening statements are scheduled monday in the trial of james holmes. jury selection took three months. holmes faces 165 counts in the movie theater massacre that killed 12 people.
jonathan gottschall : millions to tune in to see mayweather-pacquiao fight, but this doesn't show resurgence of declining sport of boxing. so why will so many watch?he says a fight is metaphor for the whole human condition, with everything noble and ugly on display.
a survivor tells authorities that migrants were trapped behind locked doors. rescuers say they have found scores of bodies in the waters off libya.
japan aims to put an unmanned rover on the surface of the moon by 2018. the mission is expected to to be used to perfect technologies which could be utilized for future manned space missions.
u.s. navy moves aircraft carrier, cruiser to waters near yemen. u.s., allied ships prepared to intercept iranian vessel if they enter yemen's waters. iranian admiral says his country's ships operating legally.
creflo dollar's ministry had posted a now-withdrawn request asking 200,000 people to chip in $ 300 each. dollar preaches a prosperity gospel, which promises wealth to those who tithe 10 % of their income to the church. the atlanta-based pastor said the devil wants to stop him from traveling the world, spreading christianity.
``no challenge poses more of a public threat than climate change,'' the president says. he credits the clean air act with making americans ``a lot'' healthier.
four turkish troops were wounded in the flight, according to the country's military. turkey president recep tayyip erdogan says clashes are attempt to halt a resolution process with kurds. violence between kurds and the turkish military has been ongoing for more than three decades.
two australian drug traffickers on death row in indonesia have had legal bids rejected. the men were seeking to challenge president widodo's decision to refuse clemency in their cases. andrew chan and myuran sukumaran are members of the ``bali nine'' drug syndicate.
most of the victims were children, according to reports. condolence messages appear online with images of boys in soccer uniforms. the bus collided with a fuel tanker near the southern moroccan city of tan-tan.
scientist measured the thousands of small earthquakes in yellowstone to scan the earth underneath it. they discovered a vast magma reservoir fueling a vast one scientists already knew about. prehistoric eruptions of yellowstone supervolcano were some of earth's largest explosions.
marleni olivo, 54, hit venezuelan president nicolas maduro in the head with a mango. in a national tv broadcast, maduro said he would grant her request for a new apartment. she wanted to give him a note, she says, but had no paper, only a mango.
six people taken hostage in a kosher market siege say media outlet endangered their lives. they hid in a cold room during the attack in paris by gunman amedy coulibaly.
jamaluddin jarjis, former malaysian ambassador to the u.s., among casualties. azlin alias, a member of the prime minister's staff, also dies, news agency reports.
ben affleck admits he asked pbs show ``finding your roots'' to avoid mentioning his slave-owning ancestor. dean obeidallah says the actor and the show were right to leave the detail out.
a u.s. drone strike accidentally killed hostages warren weinstein and giovanni lo porto. michael rubin : hostages such as journalist jason rezaian are canaries in the coal mine.
marc randazza : court upholds a trademark denial for asian-american band the slants on the grounds that name was disparaging. he says court is wrong : trademarks are commercial speech, protected by first amendment.  ruling a sign or our easily offended times.
loeb says he filed a complaint against the actress to prevent her from destroying their two embryos. the couple created the embryos while they were engaged.
control of strategic seaport of aden divided between houthi rebels and government loyalists. some saudi arms are falling into rebel hands. terrified residents line up for bread and fuel and try to stay indoors.
agent was taken to an area hospital as a precaution.  he passed a drug test and was discharged, alaska airlines says. the cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled.
school print shop operator ron lane was killed, college president says. the man believed to be the gunman is identified as former student kenneth stancil. the two knew each other, authorities say.
cnn investigation uncovers the business inside a human smuggling ring. 10 % discount offered for every referral of another paying migrant, desperate to reach europe.
matyas gutai is pioneering the use of water as an insulator for sustainable architecture. reacting to its surroundings, the water keeps the house at a comfortable temperature.
italian navy retakes fishing boat seized by smugglers. boat was being steered towards libyan port of misrata. italian navy says shots were fired accidentally, one fisherman injured.
show will return with a one-hour special, followed by spinoff, star john stamos says. he announced the show monday night on ``jimmy kimmel live''
white sox hall of famer tweets the closed-door game also should be postponed. baltimore unrest leads to postponement of two baseball games. third game in series will be first ever played without spectators.
houthis call for halt to fighting and resumption of peace talks. the cessation of airstrikes lasted less than 24 hours. next phase, called ``operation renewal of hope,'' will focus on political process.
wisconsin, which last won a title in 1941, was led by birthday boy frank kaminsky. justise winslow leads duke with 19 points, while jahlil okafor has 18. coach k says his team's defense was ``terrific''
the person climbed the fence on the south side of the white house complex. charges are pending.
baltimore mayor says she wants to ``clarify'' use of the term. some community leaders in the city call the term equivalent to the n-word. others disagree and don't want the debate overshadowing the issues.
avalanche of appellate rulings have struck down state bans on same-sex marriage. judge jeffrey sutton is behind only recent appellate decision to uphold such state bans. ``judge sutton's opinion stands alone,'' says official with gay rights advocacy group.
zimbabweans make up the largest group of immigrants in south africa. attackers have targeted foreigners and their businesses.
government names abdirahim abdullahi as one attacker ; his father is a government official. kenyan government tweets that attack mastermind was mohamed mohamud. al-shabaab threatens ``another bloodbath'' in kenya.
were the police justified in stopping freddie gray ?can they be held liable for his death ?
gunfire erupts after senior u.s. official meets with afghan governor in jalalabad, u.s. embassy says. afghan soldier fires at u.s. troops, afghan police official says.
new belgium brewery will make a beer inspired by ben & jerry's ice cream. it will be called ``salted caramel brownie''
suzanne crough was the youngest member of tv's ``partridge family''crough died monday at 52 in nevada.
bobbi kristina brown has ``global and irreversible'' brain damage, her grandmother says. ``we can only trust in god for a miracle at this time,'' cissy houston says. bobby brown, her father, had said at a concert that she was ``awake''
spacecraft to crash on mercury this month. messenger probe has been in orbit since 2011.
the wave of isis beheadings has horrified people all over the world. it may also have contributed to isolated beheading incidents by non-jihadists, says an academic. professor arie w. kruglanski says exposure to the videos could help ``prime'' some to emulate them.
iran's military held annual national army day parade over the weekend. top military official says he hopes u.s.-iranian enmity will fade. u.s. has welcomed limited iranian help in fight against isis but neither side plans full coordination.
amy bass : baltimore rioting caused postponement of two orioles-white sox games.  now third game of series will be played to empty stadium. she says baseball can bring cities together.  but with so few black fans, players, it will be hard for baltimore to gather around this sport to heal.
tens of thousands of migrants and refugees risk the perilous journey across the mediterranean every year. many make the trip in dangerous boats owned by people smugglers ; thousands have died along the way in recent years.
photographer james oatway captured a violent attack that resulted in death of a mozambican in south africa. seven people have been killed in recent violence against poorer immigrants, many from south africa's neighbors.
a u.s. military official tells cnn the fall of ramadi is ``not imminent''official in ramadi says it's unclear how long government forces can hold out there. he begs the iraqi government for reinforcements and the u.s.-led coalition for airstrikes.
a white police officer in south carolina is charged with killing an unarmed black man in the back. david love : what happened tells us the epidemic of police deadly force against black people continues.
ford vox : when celeb doc mehmet oz slammed by doctors for `quack' medicine, he hit back, but their complaint has some basis. he says oz scorned by some in medical community, at senate hearing ; comics joke about him.  he serves himself at cost to his hospital.
the terror attacks in india left more than 160 people dead. a court granted the suspect bail last year.
beatriz paez was walking sunday when she saw police activity. she says marshals told her to stop recording but she refused. marshals service said it is looking into incident after man took her phone and smashed it.
tim stanley : muhammadu buhar won nigeria vote on campaign against corruption.  he's an ex-dictator, but there's reason for optimism. he says jonathan administration failed to address corruption, poverty and rise of boko haram.  buhar may be tonic to years of misrule.
analysis of martian weather seems to support the idea that the planet could be dotted with salty puddles at night. the finding has ``wider implications'' for efforts to find evidence of life on mars, a researcher says.
report says north korea may have as many as 20 nuclear warheads. victor cha : washington has tended to downplay north korean threats.
djokovic wins monte carlo masters. defeats berdych 7-5, 4-6, 6-3. djokovic had earlier beaten clay expert nadal in semis.
new york reports 160 hospitalizations related to synthetic marijuana. gov. andrew cuomo issued a health alert.
the death sentences will be appealed. mohamed soltan, a 27-year-old u.s.-egyptian activist on a hunger strike, is sentenced to life in prison. letter from soltan's sister : ``your face, with its beautiful smile. . now looks permanently in pain''
sherrilyn ifill : police violence against unarmed african-americans is a national crisis. u.s. policing needs dramatic overhaul, she says.
``the breakfast club'' script was found in a high school filing cabinet 30 years later. school officials hope to display the draft script.
``monty python and the holy grail'' celebrates 40 years thursday. the 1975 film is considered a comedy classic. troupe made three movies together, not including concert works and compilations.
amy schumer took a fake tumble tuesday in front kanye west and kim kardashian. the comedian pulled the prank at the time 100 gala in new york. schumer, whose ``inside amy schumer'' also premiered tuesday, is having a moment.
sally kohn : april 14 is equal pay day, and hillary clinton should make an announcement about wage gap. clinton should say that if elected, she will take a 23 % pay cut to stand in solidarity with working women.
sabrina schaeffer : tuesday is equal pay day, a fictitious holiday marked by progressive women. she says the wage gap between men and women is grossly overstated.
nba player jeff green had open heart surgery to repair an aortic aneurysm in 2011. green missed the entire 2011-2012 basketball season. now he donates time to young cardiovascular patients.
accused of leaking a document revealing party's ideological battle plan to counter advocates of constitutional democracy. amnesty : her sentencing is in line with the very stern approach president xi jinping's team has taken on dissent. gao was arrested in april last year, ahead of the sensitive 25th anniversary of the tiananmen square crackdown.
east asia sees soaring rates of myopia, with 80-90 % of young adult population affected. evidence that myopia rates are increasing in europe and the u.s.scientists advice for kids : go outside and play.
response across social media led to multiple trending topics for hillary clinton's presidential announcement. some responded to her video and her new campaign logo.
a youtube video shows the scale of an avalanche on mount everest on saturday. eight nepalis are dead at everest, but not identified ; three americans are also dead. helicopter rescues are underway to retrieve climbers stranded on everest.
the wikileaks founder is wanted for questioning over sexual abuse claims ; he denies the allegations. assange has been holed up in the ecuadorian embassy in london since june 2012.
police : a male tsa officer signaled to a female officer when he found a man attractive. female officer would notify scanning machine a woman -- not a man -- was passing through. police : that would trigger an anomaly in groin area, leading male officer to grope passenger.
les abend : how did gyrocopter fly on to capitol grounds when faa, defense forces keep tight rein on airspace ?he says gyrocopter may be lightweight and slow enough that it evaded radar. he says it's unlikely such a flight could pose a serious danger.
``it is meaningless to congratulate me or others'' because deal not final, ayatollah says. president hassan rouhani : iran will not surrender to bullying, sanctions. u.s. lawmaker : bill to ease sanctions does not stand a chance in house or senate.
salk's vaccine began with inoculating school children in april, 1955. polio was declared eradicated in the u.s. in 1979, but still exists in other countries. a new microneedle patch is easily used by minimally trained personnel.
mary harvin transformation center was to house 60 senior-citizen apartments, community center. it burned down during baltimore riots.
the training materials are a result of a 2013 ruling declaring ``stop, question and frisk'' unconstitutional. they read that racial profiling ``is offensive. . . it diverts us from catching real criminals''
no official way out for americans stranded amid fighting in yemen. u.s. deputy chief of mission says situation is very dangerous so no mass evacuation is planned.
saudi arabia has launched airstrikes against rebels in yemen. ali alahmed : results of saudi campaign unlikely to be positive.
organizers want to ban scantily-clad models at car show. the shanghai auto show is a key event for global automakers. cars are no longer the status symbol they once were in china.
``the late show with david letterman'' concludes may 20. letterman's guests will include oprah winfrey and bill murray. stephen colbert takes over the slot september 8.
martial law has been lifted in thailand after 10 months. it has been replaced by a new order granting sweeping powers to the military junta. critics warn the move deepens the country's ``descent into dictatorship''
``they got it wrong,'' aaron hernandez says as he is transported to prison. the jury deliberated for more than 35 hours over parts of seven days. mother of murder victim odin lloyd says she forgives those who played a role in her son's death.
peter moskos : when man died in police custody, many unfairly blamed all baltimore cops.  but cops are in a no-win situation. he says those who trashed city are part of larger societal woes of poverty and class.  in just blaming cops, we ignore source of strife.
migrant women hope to reach europe so their babies will be born there. hundreds of arrested migrants are detained in libya while officials try to figure out what to do. a funeral is held outside a valletta, malta, hospital for migrants killed in ship's sinking.
the video shows people throwing chairs and stanchions. friday was the grand opening of fat tuesday at the casino. three men have been arrested.
in baltimore, after the death of freddie gray, riots erupted, cars were set on fire and 200 arrests were made. eric liu : liberals and conservatives react predictably, see the riots as confirmation of their views. it's time to push each other out of our ideological and identity comfort zones and change the status quo, he says.
working out in a group of friends inspired fit nation participant erica moore.
president franklin d. roosevelt died suddenly 70 years ago april 12 in warm springs, georgia. lauder : he was longest-serving president in history ; impact was felt immediately and personally.
the massachusetts senator says washington works well for special interests and the well-connected but leaves out the rest of the nation. she says that in her eyes, two declared gop candidates have already disqualified themselves.
hillary clinton could be helped by an improving climate for women in politics. republicans hope the gender play backfires and that voters are fatigued by identity politics. the emphasis on women as a possible campaign theme is a reversal of her 2008 strategy.
timothy stanley : hillary clinton running for president, but it's not clear what she stands for.  there are grounds for a liberal primary challenge. he says democrats who call for reform offer only hillary clinton.  she's formidable candidate, but where are bold new ideas ?
the new horizons spacecraft captures image of pluto and its largest moon. it's set to reveal new details as it nears the remote area of the solar system.
some local businesses in baltimore are banding together to show support for change. business owners have given workers opportunities to peacefully demonstrate. several businesses dealing with destruction, looting from monday riot.
the executive director of zeta beta tau fraternity apologizes for ``ugly and unacceptable behavior''university of florida and emory university fraternity members are being investigated. wounded veterans, fraternity members stayed at the same resort at panama city beach, florida.
methyl bromide is suspected to have been used improperly several times in the u.s. virgin islands, local officials say. teen brothers exposed to the pesticide while on vacation are both in comas ; parents are recovering.
frida ghitis : isis and other jihadi groups see women as crucial in role of caliphate they want to create. she says the groups want to enslave women, tie them to a long outdated view of how society should work.
jamal al-labani is believed to be the first american killed in current violence in yemen. he was on his way back from mosque prayers when he was hit in the back by shrapnel, his family said. he went to yemen in february in hopes of bringing his wife and baby back to the u.s.
trip will come before pope francis arrives in united states. francis played key role in re-establishing diplomatic ties between cuba and u.s.
the a&e networks are remaking the blockbuster ``roots'' miniseries, to air in 2016. the epic 1977 miniseries about an african-american slave had 100 million viewers.
fareed zakaria : isis has thrived because of a local sunni cause in syria and iraq. leaders of isis have recognized they are a messaging machine, he says.
malaysia, australia and china announce possible new phase of hunt for missing plane. the search of the current priority zone is expected to be completed in may.
the true cross phenomenon begins with emperor constantine, the first roman emperor to convert to christianity. could fragments of a tree survive millennia ? or are they fragments of forgery that speak to our need to believe ?
scientists in southern italy have known about him since 1993. researchers worried that rescuing the bones would shatter them.
jeffrey toobin : scotus to decide same-sex marriage as u.s. largely in favor.  did framers intend this ? that doesn't always matter. he says originalists on the court may hew to conservative view, but most of the justices have given clues that they see writing on wall.
dc, partners introduce dc super hero girls, intended for girls 6-12. reaction mostly favorable -- but some caveats.
dorothy brown : ben affleck and henry louis gates scrubbed segment about affleck's slave-owning ancestors from tv show. she says they two missed a chance to discuss racial issues that still fester in this country.
dorothy brown : shooting by cop might have followed usual narrative of blaming black suspects. but video in walter scott's fatal shooting showed the truth, brown says. with hindsight from michael brown case, north charleston did the right thing with arrest.
``out of sight, out of mind'' doesn't apply to communities along the gulf of mexico, philippe cousteau says. we must take the time and effort needed to understand our natural resources, he says. he says our understanding of how the gulf works remains limited.
spacex says weather forced it to delay its rocket launch plan. the company plans to launch a two-stage rocket to the international space station. after the launch, spacex will try to guide the bottom stage upright onto the platform.
aqap says a ``crusader airstrike'' killed ibrahim al-rubaish. al-rubaish was once detained by the united states in guantanamo.
james holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity in the 2012 theater shooting. his trial begins monday, and homes faces 165 counts, including murder and attempted murder.
cnn's nima elbagir describes the boat journey from djbouti to aden. vessel returned with 60 refugees desperate to flee fighting in yemen.
moutassem yazbek describes harrowing 12-day journey from turkey to italy. yazbek, a syrian refugee, paid a smuggler $ 6,500 to get him to italy in december.
cnn's dr. sanjay gupta says we should legalize medical marijuana now. he says he knows how easy it is do nothing ``because i did nothing for too long''
putin has spent hours fielding questions from the general public on live television. sanctions and russia's deep economic crisis are a major theme.
ten physicians across the country have banded together to tell columbia they think having oz on faculty is unacceptable. radiology professor says that he just wants oz to ``follow the basic rules of science''tv's ``dr. oz'' holds a faculty position at columbia university's college of physicians and surgeons.
new this is a multistate outbreak ``occurring over several years,'' the cdc says. cdc says 3 people died from bacteria believed to have come from blue bell. ``we are heartbroken about this situation,'' blue bell ceo and president says.
peggy drexler : video of toya graham hitting son as she drags him from protests has raised questions.  was she a hero ? abusive ?neither, she says ; she was a mom trying to steer her adolescent in a heated city conflict, and more moms need this kind of commitment.
surveyors did not check for damage or casualties overnight due to bad weather. the national weather service sent tweets warning of a large tornado. a resident snapped a photo of what could be a very large tornado.
silas and eli keslar, both 18 months old, drowned in an arizona canal. their mother was trying to fend of a bee when the stroller rolled away, police say.
the death toll in nepal rises to 3,218, a government official says. the number of injured is reported to be more than 6,500, he says. another 56 people are dead in india, and 20 in china.
authorities identify the deceased passenger as 36-year-old gary terry. authorities say the driver, 24-year-old tavon watson, lost control of a lamborghini. the crash occurred at the exotic driving experience at walt disney world speedway.
netanyahu says a deal would pave the way for iran to get a nuclear bomb. iran's enrichment capacity and stockpile will be limited, diplomats say. talks were tough, intense and ``sometimes emotional and confrontational,'' kerry says.
``x-men'' original character bobby ``iceman'' drake is revealed to be gay in latest issue. ``all-new x-men'' no. 40 has psychic jean grey discovering drake's sexuality. iceman has been in marvel comics for over 50 years.
reform proposal would give hong kongers right to vote for their next leader in 2017. but candidates would have to be approved by a mostly pro-beijing committee. pro-democracy legislators have vowed to veto proposal.
brazil extends `deepest sympathy' to family of executed brazilian. indonesia executed eight death row inmates early wednesday. australian pm calls executions ``cruel and unnecessary''
150 years ago on april 9, confederate general robert e. lee surrendered at appomattox court house. douglas brinkley : the spirit of that event is something to keep in mind for today's divided america.
a second teen has been charged with helping plan an ``isis-inspired'' attack. one 18-year-old suspect has already been charged, report says.
olympic hero bruce jenner appears on vanity fair cover as ``caitlyn''transgender people in the united states are riding an unprecedented wave of visibility. shows such as ``transparent,'' ``orange is the new black'' have raised awareness.
defector deploys balloons with ``the interview'' to north korea. lee min-bok says he finds the movie vulgar, but sends it anyway.
laura bernardini, a lifelong catholic, has decided to finally read the bible from cover to cover.  this is week two. some surprises : two creation stories, seth, and what on earth are the ``men of heaven'' ?
conor mcdonnell is the young photographer behind instagram's most liked photo. 23-year-old has snapped the likes of calvin harris, drake, and justin bieber.
hubble has helped make major discoveries but there are limits to how far it can see into space. the james webb space telescope will work in the infra-red and be able to see objects that formed 13 billion years ago. scientists also believe the new telescope will be able to detect planets around nearby stars.
officer michael rapiejko said he needed to use lethal force to stop the suspect. mario valencia was carrying a rifle and fired one round into the air. rapiejko said two options crossed his mind and it was too far to shoot valencia.
london-based artist jonty hurwitz creates sculptures that are smaller than a human hair. they're made using ultraviolet light and resin, and then photographed with an electron microscope.
migrants rescued in augusta, italy tell cnn why they fled. they were packed onto two barely seaworthy boats, tug captain said.
vit jedlicka, the first president of liberland, tells cnn that the country will be formally founded on may 1. on april 13, jedlicka declared an area between croatia and serbia ``the free republic of liberland''jedlicka says that almost 300,000 applications for citizenship have so far been received.
sudan is one of a handful of northern white rhinos left worldwide. as the only male, the fate of the subspecies rests on his ability to conceive with two females at a conservancy. experts are trying various ways, including in vitro fertilization.
fireball cinnamon whisky is the fastest-growing big brand of liquor in america. the liquor has dethroned jagermeister as america's party shot of choice. whisky expert : ``fireball is an incredible phenomenon.  the growth. . has just been astounding''
an afghan lawmaker is among 64 people wounded in the attack, police say. taliban spokesman denies his group was responsible for the attack.
parents wanted for questioning after girl's body found at home. north las vegas police : 3-year-old had been dead for at least a few weeks. 17-year-old sibling is held in case.
jurors are scheduled to begin deliberations tuesday morning. if tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one capital count, the trial will go to the penalty phase. prosecutor during closing argument : tsarnaev ``wanted to awake the mujahideen, the holy warriors''
court has adjourned for the day after more than seven hours of deliberations. jurors sent out two questions that are set to be addressed wednesday. if dzhokhar tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one capital count, trial will go to penalty phase.
amnesty calls for probe of india police shooting of 20 suspected smugglers. police decline comment, saying ``investigation is still going on''india's national human rights commission says incident involved ``serious violation of human rights of the individuals. ''
witness who took the video says ``mr. scott didn't deserve this''north charleston police officer michael slager is fired. the city orders an additional 150 body cameras.
protests in south carolina have been calm compared to the violence in ferguson. north charleston's mayor says hundreds of body cameras will be on officers. it took six days for ferguson police to identify darren wilson, who was not wearing a camera.
boston police officer john moynihan is released from the hospital. video shows that the man later shot dead by police in boston opened fire first. moynihan was shot in the face during a traffic stop.
``slip and capture'' explains why deputy shot suspect, investigator says. sheriff's office says a reserve deputy thought he had pulled out a taser. instead, he shot the suspect, who later died at a local hospital.
in the first recording, an unidentified officer talks to slager about what might happen. the second audio captures a phone call between slager and someone cnn believes is his wife.
harris family attorney says volunteer deputy was a donor who paid to play a cop. an attorney representing reserve deputy robert bates says it was an ``excusable homicide''eric harris' brother says the shooting was ``simply evil,'' accuses investigators of trying to cover it up.
chief tells cnn that deadly force was warranted. chief : if suspect ended up shooting people, police would be answering different questions. incident happened february 19 in town near tucson, arizona.
a charity group is preparing aid packages for those who want to return home. the attacks have left 5 dead -- two immigrants and three south africans. a 14-year-old boy is among those killed after a mob with machetes targeted foreigners.
the 12 victims were from nigeria and ghana, police said. the group of 105 people left libya, bound for italy. more than 10,000 people have arrived on italian shores from libya since last weekend.
officer michael rapiejko was sued in new york over claims he used excessive force during an arrest. the city settled the lawsuit while rapiejko and others admitted no guilt. rapiejko left the nypd voluntarily in 2006, source tells cnn.
ricky ricardo chiles iii was suspected in the shooting deaths of two people. police say the chain of events started sunday when a 2-year-old dashed out in front a vehicle and was killed. the driver of the vehicle and the boy's older brother died from gunshots.
two survivors were arrested on suspicion of human trafficking, police say. european officials propose a 10-point plan meant to address the crisis. a survivor tells authorities that migrants were trapped behind locked doors.
``we have the power and. . today shows we have the numbers,'' says a protester. the justice department is looking into whether a civil rights violation occurred. autopsy results on gray show that he died from a severe injury to his spinal cord.
police say victor white iii and jesus huerta shot themselves while handcuffed in cars. report : police ignored jorge azucena's complaints that he had asthma and couldn't breathe. kelly thomas died five days after he was beaten by police in fullerton, california.
two people are taken into custody, but the protests -- on the whole -- are peaceful. baltimore police commissioner sits down with the gray family.
sheriff's spokeswoman : ebony dickens is out of jail after posting $ 10,000 bond. police : authorities found a firearm, three computers in her east point residence. dickens is accused of posting her facebook rant under the name tiffany milan.
the ship was sunk in 1942 hundreds of miles of the coast of south america. a british company says the salvage operation occurred at a world record depth. the torpedoing is the subject of the book ``goodnight, sorry for sinking you''
tickets for mayweather v pacquiao on sale online for $ 180,000. majority of the 1,000 tickets for the general public snapped up within minutes. the fight in las vegas on may 2 is one of the biggest in the sport's history.
jeff yang : the media has a misconception about urban unrest in light of baltimore turmoil. he says there's no pattern of african americans ``targeting asian-owned businesses for destruction''
in the murder trial of james holmes, 12 jurors and 12 alternates have been selected. the mostly middle-aged group includes 19 women and five men. jury selection started in january ; opening statements are scheduled to begin on april 27.
in july 2010, joyce bruce got pregnant in an unusual way -- with repeated attempts using a turkey baster. the man who gave her his sperm wanted to have a role in his son's life. they ended up in court, and he has won joint custody and visitation rights.
jordan spieth hails autistic younger sibling as his biggest supporter. ice-cool display made him second-youngest winner behind tiger woods.
denver teacher kyle schwartz asked students to share what they wish she knew. their honest answers moved schwartz and sparked a discussion online.
olympic champion charlotte dujardin remains world's leading dressage rider after vegas contest. swiss olympic showjumping champion steve guerdat finally wins world cup jumping title at 10th attempt.
horses complete transatlantic trip to las vegas in `business class' luxury. 80,000 fans expected as organizers spend $ 8m bringing horses back to vegas. celebrity chefs and legends of sport will mix with top jumping and dressage riders. world cup final trophies to be won -- some of the most prestigious in the sport.
japanese maglev train sets new speed record : 603 kilometers per hour. the train is planned to begin service in 2027.
anuradha koirala and 425 young women and girls have been sleeping outdoors because of aftershocks. pushpa basnet and 45 children she cares for were forced to evacuate their residence. seven other cnn heroes and their organizations now assisting in relief efforts.
#tacocannon trends in omaha as excited fans eat up the idea of flying tacos. the cannon will shoot off tacos at university of nebraska-omaha's new arena.
jody farley-berens helps single parents who are battling cancer. farley-berens saw the need firsthand through her childhood friend. do you know a hero ? nominations are open for 2015 cnn heroes.
cnn hero chad bernstein started music program that helps at-risk middle school students. nonprofit group guitars over guns pairs miami-area kids with professional musician mentors. do you know a hero ? nominations are open for 2015 cnn heroes.
there are now more people of faith who favor marriage equality than stand against it, according to a new poll. if the u.s. supreme court has been paying attention, it likely saw this trend coming.
nepal is a popular place for israeli couples to have surrogate children. an estimated 10 to 15 surrogate mothers are due to give birth soon in kathmandu.
south korean lawmaker quotes intelligence officials as saying kim jong un countenances no disagreement. official reportedly executed for expressing dissatisfaction with forestry program. four member of unhasu orchestra also reportedly executed.
adam sobel : california's steps against drought are a preview for rest of u.s. and world. tying climate change to weather doesn't rest on single extreme event, sobel says. the big picture should spur us to prepare for new climates by fixing infrastructure, he says.
louis jordan says his sailboat capsized three times. he survived by collecting rainwater and eating raw fish. frank jordan told cnn his son isn't an experienced sailor but has a strong will.
japanese prime minister shinzo abe will address congress on wednesday. mike honda : abe must commit to educating future generation honestly, humbly.
carol costello : talk to any millennial and you can envision an america virtually marriage-free. in countries like sweden or denmark, people don't feel pressured to marry even if they have kids together.
volcano already has erupted twice this week. it has spewed ash to a depth of about 23 1/2 inches in some places, chilean officials say. authorities issue an alert for two towns, and there's a 12-mile exclusion zone.
strung out on heroin, anthony sideri robbed a bank. he had to go through withdrawal in a jail cell. overcoming addiction is possible, he says, as he's building a new life as a family man.
nasa's messenger probe smashes into mercury, ending mission. space probe hit the planet's surface at 8,750 mph.
isis is known for brutal takeovers and medieval justice, but it sees itself as a state. official documents show just how far their rules affect daily life.
questions tuesday centered on whether defining marriage should be left to voters in individual states or decided by judicial system. chief justice john roberts, who shocked conservatives with his swing vote to uphold obamacare, seemed to lean conservative. eyes on justice anthony kennedy, a key vote for challengers to the state bans, who has penned decisions in favor of gay rights.
saudi military official accuses iran of training and arming rebels. yemeni officials say school hit by airstrikes ; one source says three students killed. noncombatants are caught up in yemen's fighting.
hundreds of desperate migrants have died attempting to cross the mediterranean in recent says. and italians are alarmed that this year as many as a million migrants could arrive in europe.
ben wedeman joins the calabrese, an italian patrol boat as it traverses the mediterranean looking for migrants. often the crew have little to report, only coming across fishing boats or other commercial vessels. the calabrese was involved in a rescue in october 2013, during which more than 350 people died.
ngo official says people will urgently need food, water, medicine and shelter. more than 1,800 people across nepal confirmed dead, official says. people treated outside hospitals ; avalanches reported on everest.
winston's lawyer : kinsman's ``false accusations have already been exposed and rejected six times''erica kinsman said jameis winston raped her in 2012 ; a prosecutor declined to bring criminal charges. her lawsuit alleges sexual battery and false imprisonment ; winston has said they had consensual sex.
joseph kent's attorney says his client was released from jail. police in baltimore detained kent on live tv after start of curfew. that triggered a wave of interest on social media.
pop star taylor swift revealed thursday that her mom has cancer. the nature and severity of andrea swift's cancer have not been divulged.
nra says although it disagreed with sarah brady, she was an honorable and respected woman. sarah brady became involved in campaigns against gun violence after her son to picked up a loaded gun. her husband died in august, having spent the last part of his life in a wheelchair from being shot.
u.s. military doesn't have further information to evaluate the iraqi media reports. al-douri's body arrives in baghdad where dna samples are taken. izzat ibrahim al-douri was the highest-ranking member of iraqi president saddam hussein's regime to evade capture.
india predicted to outpace china as as world's fastest-growing economy in next year. china's economy is slowing after over 25 years of breakneck growth. but experts say india simply can't size up against china's raw economic might.
the dadaab refugee camp is the world's largest, with more than 600,000 people. kenya will change ``the way america changed after 9/11,'' deputy president says. william ruto adds that ``we must secure this country at whatever cost''
grass tried in his literature to come to grips with world war ii and the nazi era. his characters were the downtrodden, and his style slipped into the surreal. he stoked controversy with his admission to being a member of the waffen ss.
yoga guru bikram choudhury denies sexual assault allegations. his accusers, he says, were manipulated to lie about him. a former student says he uses his yoga accomplishments to hide the harm he's caused.
.50 - caliber bullets equipped with optical sensors can follow moving targets. the ``smart bullets'' can help shooters compensate for high winds. the goal of the program is to give shooters greater range and make american troops safer.
putin to spend hours fielding questions from the general public on live television. sanctions and russia's deep economic crisis likely to be a major theme. critics of the kremlin slam event as russia's imitation of democracy in action.
six protesters scale the polar pioneer, hundreds of miles northwest of hawaii. greenpeace opposes shell's plans to drill for oil in the arctic.
u.s. president obama, cuban president raul castro meet in panama city. the two nations -- only 90 miles apart -- have been at odds for more than 50 years.
solar plane attempting to be first to circumnavigate world without using fuel is stuck in china. solar impulse 2 attempts to prove the power of renewable energy.
attorney for the family of freddie gray says developments are step forward but another issue is more important. family will have a forensic pathologist do an independent autopsy. police say gray should have received medical care at different points before he got to a police station.
wei tingting, wang man, zheng churan, li tingting and wu rongrong freed. they're still considered suspects in an ongoing criminal investigation, may face charges in the future. they will be under surveillance for a year with their movements and activities restricted.
spacex founder elon musk : ``rocket landed on droneship, but too hard for survival''this was the second attempt at historic rocket booster barge landing. dragon spacecraft will head toward international space station on resupply mission.
paul nungesser says he was target of gender-based harassment campaign. the case drew national attention after his accuser started carrying a mattress around campus.
freddie gray was arrested on a weapons charge april 12 ; he was dead seven days later. he was put in a police van after his arrest ; it's unclear what happened inside the van. gray has a criminal history but it's not known if that had anything to do with his arrest or death.
aid organizations are still working to help the people of nepal in the wake of two major earthquakes. thousands were killed in a magnitude 7.8 earthquake in nepal on april 25. a second quake rocked the country less than three weeks later.
u.s. navy is developing an unmanned drone ship to track enemy submarines to limit their tactical capacity for surprise. the vessel would be able to operate under with little supervisory control. advances are necessary to maintain technological edge on russia and china, admiral tells house panel.
witness who took video of shooting said when he arrived officer was on top of walter scott. feidin santana says walter scott didn't take michael slager's taser. santana said he never saw officers perform cpr before he left the scene to go to work.
inkster, michigan, police chief vicki yost resigns in the wake of charges against one of her former officers. william melendez was caught on police car dashcam video in january beating an unarmed black motorist. melendez was charged with assault on monday ; all charges against the motorist have been dropped.
boko haram has killed thousands in the nation's northeast since 2009. aid agencies are scrambling to provide the refugees with clean water, shelter, food and education.
police say 275,000 demonstrators marched in sao paulo. many want president dilma rousseff to be impeached. a corruption scandal has implicated politicians in her party.
a company called cyark specializes in digital preservation of threatened ancient and historical architecture. founded by an iraqi-born engineer, it plans to preserve 500 world heritage sites within five years.
police : yuhei takashima, 64, says he had sex with girls as young as 14 in philippines. officers seize nearly 150,000 photos that the former principal kept of his activities.
footage shows a traffic stop and early interactions between officer michael slager and walter scott. the two men speak, and then scott gets out of the car, running. slager, charged with murder, was fired from the north charleston police department.
9 indicted on organized crime charges related to bourbon thefts. employees at two kentucky distilleries among those indicted.
family of american medic killed posts message on facebook says she died while at base camp. at least 13 die after avalanches at mount everest base camp, authorities say ; climber says 17 dead. dining tent at one base camp has been transformed into a hospital, another hiker says.
``the cold war has been over for a long time,'' president obama says. the thaw in ties has dominated discussion at the summit of the americas in panama. the top leaders from the united states and cuba haven't met for substantive talks in more than 50 years.
the world happiness report highlights the happiest countries. people live longer and experience more generosity and social support in these counties. the united nations first declared a world happiness day in 2012.
mourners attend visitation service for walter scott. police meet with man who was passenger in his car when it was pulled over. michael slager's lawyer says police aren't being helpful at this point.
the european union is trying to stop thousands of migrants from drowning at sea. migrants risk their lives by paying people smugglers to get them to europe. australia has successfully stopped the flow of migrant boats to its waters.
footage shows groups of captives in jumpsuits executed at 2 locations, narrator says. video makes numerous references to christians failing to pay tax or tribute to muslims.
an italian prosecutor announces suspected al qaeda affiliates may have targeted the vatican. isis produced propaganda videos showing beheadings of egyptian, ethiopian christians. al-shabaab has singled out non-muslims to kill them, as at a garissa university college.
ousted egyptian president mohamed morsy is convicted of charges involving violence against protesters. but he is acquitted of murder. ``we promise you unexpected revolutionary surprises,'' a muslim brotherhood spokesman says.
2 minors were sentenced to 10 years in prison, in addition to adults getting life. 52 of the 73 defendants were sentenced in absentia. the virgin mary church was burned along with dozens of others in august 2013.
a jury has found ex-new england patriots star guilty of murder. aaron hernandez also charged with murder in 2012 double homicide. `golden boy' had just inked $ 40 million contract when troubles began.
conservationist edwin sabuhoro founded a cultural village in rwanda. the village provides work for poachers and unemployed youth.
if you turned on the television this past sunday, a new vision of jesus came into view.  darker, in mood and skin tone.  earthy rather than ethereal. according to the apostle paul, almost every depiction of jesus so far has gotten at least one detail wrong.
obsidian can produce cutting edges many times finer than even the best steel scalpels. some surgeons still use the blades in procedures today.
saturday is record store day, celebrated at music stores around the world. many stores will host live performances, drawings and special sales of rare vinyl.
ernst haas, a celebrated 20th-century photographer, was a regular on movie sets. his work from the industry has been brought together in a new book, ``ernst haas : on set''
robert bates said he meant to subdue a suspect with a taser but accidentally shot him. the preliminary hearing is scheduled for july 2. the judge said bates was free to travel to the bahamas for a family vacation.
fatu kekula, 23, saved most of her family from ebola. thanks to donors, she is being trained at emory university. kekula was one year away from finishing a nursing degree when ebola struck.
update : shelby offrink lost her battle to cancer on june 28, 2015. offrink was diagnosed at 30 with rare inoperable brain cancer. her husband, ben, was diagnosed with hodgkin's lymphoma, which had been in remission 15 years.
hospital gowns have gotten a face-lift with help from fashion designers such as diane von furstenberg. what patients wear needs to be comfortable yet allow health professionals access during exams. patient satisfaction is linked to the size of medicare payments hospitals get.
twin sister of freddie gray asks for people to stop breaking things, scuffling with cops. fans are permitted to exit camden yards after briefly being told to stay put. 12 people arrested during protests, police commissioner says.
swiss professor jean-pierre wolf is pioneering the use of lasers to affect the weather. he suggests lasers could also be used to limit the impact of climate change.
most of those released were women and children. freed yazidis sent to capital of iraq's kurdish region.
a lawyer for dr. anthony moschetto says the charges against him are baseless. moschetto, 54, was arrested for selling drugs and weapons, prosecutors say. authorities allege moschetto hired accomplices to burn down the practice of former associate.
patients flood hospitals in nepalese capital after devastating earthquake. cnn's dr. sanjay gupta helps with girl's operation at nepalese medical team's request. ``this is as bad a situation as i've ever seen,'' gupta says.
21-year-old student jackson gordon has designed and built a functional batsuit. made with money raised on kickstarter, the outfit has received a prestigious endorsement.
the recruiting tactics used by isis differ from those traditionally employed by al qaeda. isis benefits from a media environment that amplifies its propaganda, officials say.
more than 1,800 deaths reported after nepal earthquake. rescue efforts range from digging by hand to military deployments.
a total of 47 bodies have been exhumed from two mass graves. iraqis find mass graves inside presidential palace compound in tikrit. isis claimed to have executed 1,700 iraqi soldiers captured outside camp speicher.
a french rescue team finds rishi khanal more than three days after the quake. a 4-month-old baby is reported to have been rescued after 22 hours in rubble.
indonesia executed eight drug smugglers wednesday morning. mary jane veloso was meant to be the ninth but was given reprieve. supporters, family ``overjoyed'' -- indonesia stresses it's just a delay.
protests spread to new york and denver, with more scheduled for other cities. more than 100 people arrested in baltimore this week are released.
police arrest demonstrators near union square in new york. protests also held in washington, minneapolis and boston.
zuriel oduwole is a 12-year-old filmmaker. to date, she has interviewed 14 heads of state.
l'hermione is a painstaking replica of an 18th century ship of the same name. the original fought with american colonists against the british in the revolutionary war.
nepalese authorities struggle with trying to coordinate a massive influx of international aid. relief organizations say lots of aid supplies remain stuck in cargo aircraft on the tarmac. damaged roads and infrastructure have hampered distribution efforts and rescue teams trying to access remote areas.
san bernardino sheriff says 10 deputies have been put on leave. video from a news helicopter shows deputies punching and kicking a man repeatedly.
sewol ferry sank a year ago off the coast of south korea, killing 304 people. families hold protests, vigils, say not much has been resolved since sinking. government has yet to decide whether to raise the ferry.
maysak has sustained winds of more than 130 mph but is expected to weaken. it's forecast to hit the philippines during the easter weekend.
katie and dalton met as patients dealing with cystic fibrosis. two years later, they were married. dalton received a lung transplant, but katie is still waiting.
assyrians are an ancient middle eastern minority -- they are part of the rapidly dwindling christian population of iraq. after isis overran their villages, some assyrians formed a militia to fight for survival against the terror group.
for the first time ever, ferguson's city council will be half black. the two winning black candidates vowed to bring reform. the election was a critical test in this beleaguered city.
former turkish ambassador to the vatican calls use of the word ``genocide'' a ``one-sided evaluation''pope discusses massacres of armenians a century after they took place. turkey denies the mass killings constituted a genocide.
victim's brother says he felt ``anger and happy at the same time'' upon seeing video. officer michael slager pulls over scott at 9:33 a.m. saturday. video shows the officer firing eight times as scott runs away, with his back to police.
noelle velentzas and asia siddiqui are arrested in connection with a plot inspired by isis. thursday's arrests are part of a series of cases being built by the federal government.
a random sample from a michigan store tested positive for listeria monocytogenes. no illnesses caused by the hummus have been reported so far.
isis and other rebel groups control most of the refugee camp, activists say. ``never has the hour been more desperate'' in the camp, u.n. says. '' ``reports of kidnappings, beheadings and mass killings,'' plo official says.
anbar provincial official : suicide and car bombs were part of the isis assault. iraqi and allied forces have had recent success, but isis remains powerful.
tikrit is under the control of iraqi forces, iraqi prime minister says. isis departs, leaving city strewn with booby traps, explosive-filled vehicles. officials hope to avoid shia reprisals for isis slaughter of air force recruits.
peggy drexler : media, even candidate herself call clinton just `hillary. ' this reinforces stereotypes about women needing to be approachable. she says especially in global context, trust, respect important for the potential leader of free world, not familiarity.  just `hillary' not appropriate.
three people shot, one man in custody, city spokesman says. hundreds of demonstrators gathered in support of protests in baltimore. police not sure if shootings are related to protests, spokesman says.
walter scott owed over $ 18,000 in back child support payments, documents show. walter scott had four children and served in the coast guard, his brother says. he was shot in the back and killed by a north charleston police officer.
saudi arabia airstrikes on the capital increase as jets hit military facilities in sanaa. the u.n. security council meets to discuss the situation. social media : a senior al qaeda commander stands in a presidential residence after a jail break.
looming threat of al-shabaab has terrified students and teachers in kenya. terror group massacred 147 at kenyan university last week.
25-1 shot many clouds wins grand national. second win a row for jockey leighton aspell. first jockey to win two in a row on different horses since 1950s.
blackwater sniper nicholas slatten is sentenced to life in prison, mandatory for his first-degree murder conviction. three others get 30 years plus one day in the 2007 shooting in baghdad that left 17 dead.
capitol police said a male shot himself as shocked onlookers watched. the incident appears to have no connection to terrorism, police said.
the type of plane used for a jaw-dropping stunt in ``furious 7'' is 60 years old. lockheed's c-130 hercules is the longest continuously produced military plane in history. c-130 factory in georgia celebrates the flight of the first c-130 production model.
air india has evacuated 2,500 people in recent days from yemen, indian official says. passengers could only bring carry-on luggage onto the airplane. the saudis have not destroyed the airstrips, which are controlled by houthis.
shell casings, glass and blood stains litter dorm at garissa university college. at least 147 died in thursday attack at the kenyan college.
the company says it is seeking to ``redefine sexy''victoria's secret was criticized for its ``perfect body'' campaign.
police in dallas shot and killed jason harrison last year. a grand jury has decided not to indict the officers. the officers are still facing a civil lawsuit filed by harrison's family.
nasa chief scientist ellen stofan believes we're close to finding alien life. indications within a decade ; definitive evidence within ``20 to 30 years,'' she said. finding water on other celestial bodies is key to determination.
``galaxy quest'' tv series in the works. show would be based on the cult classic 1999 sci-fi comedy.
the drone is sparking terrorism concerns, authorities say. it was equipped with a bottle containing radioactive material. it was discovered as a court approved a plan to restart two japanese nuclear reactors.
statue of liberty to reopen saturday. locker thought to have a suspicious package was empty, police say. statue of liberty evacuated after bomb threat, officials say. the evacuation came after a phoned threat, sources say.
vijay das : so-so jobs numbers contain truth that worries labor experts : too much american job growth is in part-time low-income work. he says erratic work schedules tied to customer traffic wreaks havoc with low-wage workers' lives.  congress can fix this.
for a decade, the new south china mall has lain empty. it was labeled a ``ghost mall'' -- symbol of china's runaway speculation on real estate. however, a recent visit showed it may be springing back to life.
detective : ``i sincerely apologize'' for berating uber driver. nypd investigating encounter that was caught on tape by passenger. detective placed on modified assignment.
``high profits'' follows the owners of a recreational marijuana dispensary. the cnn original series airs sundays at 10 p.m. et.
brynn duncan has mast cell disease, which causes her to be allergic to almost everything. duncan has a feeding tube and is on constant doses of antihistamine.
protesters angry over bribery scandal involving state-run oil company petrobras. brazilian president dilma rousseff also is struggling with an economic downturn.
kenyans gather in nairobi to remember victims of a terrorist attack that stunned a nation. the attack at a garissa university last week killed 147 people, mostly students.
two australian drug smugglers, part of the bali nine, await word whether they'll face a firing squad. less is known about the seven other members of the group.
more than 1.5 million people are displaced, including 800,000 children, unicef says. the kidnappings that inspired #bringbackourgirls were a year ago this week. unicef is launching a #bringbackourchildhood campaign.
final troop pullout oddly detached as u.s. military operations die down in afghanistan. ambitious projects, like a police logistics center in jalalabad, may not live up to their potential.
a company called ultrahaptics has developed a technology to create 3d shapes in mid-air. a tactile sensation is provided by ultrasonic waves, which alter air pressure. the technology could be applied to electronic devices, car dashboards, and virtual reality headsets.
google maps has a temporary pac-man function. google has long been fond of april fools' day pranks and games. many people are turning their cities into pac-man courses.
aaron hernandez, even when on trial for murder, keeps that certain bounce in his step. hernandez seemed to watch his former boss and fiancee closely when they were on the stand.
laura bernardini is a lifelong catholic but had never read the bible from cover to cover. for the next year, she's going to read every word, from genesis to revelation.
xi jinping's sayings now available in a new smartphone app. scholars call it a new version of mao's ``little red book''
stan freberg was famed comedian, song parodist. he later became adman, did a number of outrageous commercials. ``weird al'' yankovic :'' a legend, an inspiration, and a friend''
bodies of suspected gunmen paraded in front of crowd in garissa. kenya's president slams those who finance and support groups like al-shabaab. al-shabaab threatens ``another bloodbath'' in kenya.
rick santorum says ``religious freedom'' debate is about government telling people what to do. santorum, a likely 2016 gop presidential candidate, weighs in on indiana gov. mike pence's decision.
mitchell is best know for her hits ``big yellow taxi'' and ``free man in paris''paramedics came to her los angeles home on tuesday afternoon.
generations of everest climbers have left tons of trash. the indian army plans to remove at least 4,000 kilograms from the peak.
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu slams nuclear framework deal with iran. he says it would legitimize iran's nuclear program and bolster its economy.
holland america says two passengers died in an apparent murder-suicide. ``the cabin was immediately secured and the authorities were notified,'' cruise line says. the fbi is investigating the deaths ; the ship is in san juan, puerto rico.
iranian president says a nuclear deal would remove a major obstacle for business. ``we can cooperate with the world,'' president hassan rouhani insists. he says, ``we do not lie,'' and iran will abide by its promises on nuclear deal.
thunderstorms with large hail are predicted for the midwest and the plains. tornadoes could strike thursday night and friday.
sierra sharry was eight months pregnant when her son's father died. a photographer was able to add lane smith to the family photo.
kenya's security has been bogged down by concerns over civil rights. kenyan muslims have been targeted in raids and robbed, says human rights watch.
cnn team finds a man at ``unofficial'' displaced camp willing to provide children to be ``fostered''he says he can't take money for them, but eventually demands $ 500 for two girls.
many girls in nima, one of accra's poorest slums, receive little or no education. achievers ghana is a school funded by the community to give the next generation a better chance of success. girls are being taught to code by tech entrepreneur regina agyare, who believes her students will go far.
the controversy over indiana's religious freedom law is complicated. some factors you might have not considered.
judge also throws out bombshell sex claims against lawyer alan dershowitz. he asks a federal court to ``strike'' sex-related allegations against him. a court filing says dershowitz had sex with minors via jeffrey epstein ; he denies it.
fishing vessels are searching for 15 people still thought to be missing. there were 132 people on board the ship, 78 of them russians, tass news agency says. the rest were foreign nationals from myanmar, ukraine, lithuania and vanuatu, it says.
talks run until early thursday morning ; expected to resume hours later. iranian minister : other side must ``seize the moment,'' not try to pressure iran. u.s. official : ``it is still totally unclear when this might happen, if it happens at all''
autopilot could have taken control of germanwings flight and flown plane to safe altitude. but some experts say taking control away from humans could lead to other dangers. another concern : autopilot might be vulnerable to hackers.
gov. mike pence is making the right call to fix indiana's religious freedom law, which can be used for discrimination. mark goldfeder : indiana should aim to be a shining beacon of cooperation : the real ``crossroads of america''
