Marseille, France ( CNN ) The French prosecutor leading an investigation into the crash of Germanwings Flight 9525 insisted Wednesday that he was not aware of any video footage from on board the plane. Marseille prosecutor Brice Robin told CNN that ``so far no videos were used in the crash investigation.''. He added, ``A person who has such a video needs to immediately give it to the investigators.''. Robin's comments follow claims by two magazines, German daily Bild and French Paris Match, of a cell phone video showing the harrowing final seconds from on board Germanwings Flight 9525 as it crashed into the French Alps. All 150 on board were killed. Paris Match and Bild reported that the video was recovered from a phone at the wreckage site. The two publications described the supposed video, but did not post it on their websites. The publications said that they watched the video, which was found by a source close to the investigation. ``One can hear cries of `My God' in several languages,'' Paris Match reported. ``Metallic banging can also be heard more than three times, perhaps of the pilot trying to open the cockpit door with a heavy object. Towards the end, after a heavy shake, stronger than the others, the screaming intensifies. Then nothing.''. ``It is a very disturbing scene,'' said Julian Reichelt, editor-in-chief of Bild online. An official with France's accident investigation agency, the BEA, said the agency is not aware of any such video. Lt. Col. Jean-Marc Menichini, a French Gendarmerie spokesman in charge of communications on rescue efforts around the Germanwings crash site, told CNN that the reports were ``completely wrong'' and ``unwarranted.''. Cell phones have been collected at the site, he said, but that they ``hadn't been exploited yet.''. Menichini said he believed the cell phones would need to be sent to the Criminal Research Institute in Rosny sous-Bois, near Paris, in order to be analyzed by specialized technicians working hand-in-hand with investigators. But none of the cell phones found so far have been sent to the institute, Menichini said. Asked whether staff involved in the search could have leaked a memory card to the media, Menichini answered with a categorical ``no.''. Reichelt told ``Erin Burnett : Outfront'' that he had watched the video and stood by the report, saying Bild and Paris Match are ``very confident'' that the clip is real. He noted that investigators only revealed they'd recovered cell phones from the crash site after Bild and Paris Match published their reports. ``That is something we did not know before.. Overall we can say many things of the investigation weren't revealed by the investigation at the beginning,'' he said. What was mental state of Germanwings co-pilot ?. German airline Lufthansa confirmed Tuesday that co-pilot Andreas Lubitz had battled depression years before he took the controls of Germanwings Flight 9525, which he's accused of deliberately crashing last week in the French Alps. Lubitz told his Lufthansa flight training school in 2009 that he had a ``previous episode of severe depression,'' the airline said Tuesday. Email correspondence between Lubitz and the school discovered in an internal investigation, Lufthansa said, included medical documents he submitted in connection with resuming his flight training. The announcement indicates that Lufthansa, the parent company of Germanwings, knew of Lubitz's battle with depression, allowed him to continue training and ultimately put him in the cockpit. Lufthansa, whose CEO Carsten Spohr previously said Lubitz was 100 % fit to fly, described its statement Tuesday as a ``swift and seamless clarification'' and said it was sharing the information and documents -- including training and medical records -- with public prosecutors. Spohr traveled to the crash site Wednesday, where recovery teams have been working for the past week to recover human remains and plane debris scattered across a steep mountainside. He saw the crisis center set up in Seyne-les-Alpes, laid a wreath in the village of Le Vernet, closer to the crash site, where grieving families have left flowers at a simple stone memorial. Menichini told CNN late Tuesday that no visible human remains were left at the site but recovery teams would keep searching. French President Francois Hollande, speaking Tuesday, said that it should be possible to identify all the victims using DNA analysis by the end of the week, sooner than authorities had previously suggested. In the meantime, the recovery of the victims' personal belongings will start Wednesday, Menichini said. Among those personal belongings could be more cell phones belonging to the 144 passengers and six crew on board. Check out the latest from our correspondents. The details about Lubitz's correspondence with the flight school during his training were among several developments as investigators continued to delve into what caused the crash and Lubitz's possible motive for downing the jet. A Lufthansa spokesperson told CNN on Tuesday that Lubitz had a valid medical certificate, had passed all his examinations and ``held all the licenses required.''. Earlier, a spokesman for the prosecutor's office in Dusseldorf, Christoph Kumpa, said medical records reveal Lubitz suffered from suicidal tendencies at some point before his aviation career and underwent psychotherapy before he got his pilot's license. Kumpa emphasized there's no evidence suggesting Lubitz was suicidal or acting aggressively before the crash. Investigators are looking into whether Lubitz feared his medical condition would cause him to lose his pilot's license, a European government official briefed on the investigation told CNN on Tuesday. While flying was ``a big part of his life,'' the source said, it's only one theory being considered. Another source, a law enforcement official briefed on the investigation, also told CNN that authorities believe the primary motive for Lubitz to bring down the plane was that he feared he would not be allowed to fly because of his medical problems. Lubitz's girlfriend told investigators he had seen an eye doctor and a neuropsychologist, both of whom deemed him unfit to work recently and concluded he had psychological issues, the European government official said. But no matter what details emerge about his previous mental health struggles, there's more to the story, said Brian Russell, a forensic psychologist. ``Psychology can explain why somebody would turn rage inward on themselves about the fact that maybe they weren't going to keep doing their job and they're upset about that and so they're suicidal,'' he said. ``But there is no mental illness that explains why somebody then feels entitled to also take that rage and turn it outward on 149 other people who had nothing to do with the person's problems.''. Germanwings crash compensation : What we know. Who was the captain of Germanwings Flight 9525 ?. CNN's Margot Haddad reported from Marseille and Pamela Brown from Dusseldorf, while Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London. CNN's Frederik Pleitgen, Pamela Boykoff, Antonia Mortensen, Sandrine Amiel and Anna-Maja Rappard contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The Palestinian Authority officially became the 123rd member of the International Criminal Court on Wednesday, a step that gives the court jurisdiction over alleged crimes in Palestinian territories. The formal accession was marked with a ceremony at The Hague, in the Netherlands, where the court is based. The Palestinians signed the ICC's founding Rome Statute in January, when they also accepted its jurisdiction over alleged crimes committed ``in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, since June 13, 2014.''. Later that month, the ICC opened a preliminary examination into the situation in Palestinian territories, paving the way for possible war crimes investigations against Israelis. As members of the court, Palestinians may be subject to counter-charges as well. Israel and the United States, neither of which is an ICC member, opposed the Palestinians' efforts to join the body. But Palestinian Foreign Minister Riad al-Malki, speaking at Wednesday's ceremony, said it was a move toward greater justice. ``As Palestine formally becomes a State Party to the Rome Statute today, the world is also a step closer to ending a long era of impunity and injustice,'' he said, according to an ICC news release. ``Indeed, today brings us closer to our shared goals of justice and peace.''. Judge Kuniko Ozaki, a vice president of the ICC, said acceding to the treaty was just the first step for the Palestinians. ``As the Rome Statute today enters into force for the State of Palestine, Palestine acquires all the rights as well as responsibilities that come with being a State Party to the Statute. These are substantive commitments, which can not be taken lightly,'' she said. Rights group Human Rights Watch welcomed the development. ``Governments seeking to penalize Palestine for joining the ICC should immediately end their pressure, and countries that support universal acceptance of the court's treaty should speak out to welcome its membership,'' said Balkees Jarrah, international justice counsel for the group. ``What's objectionable is the attempts to undermine international justice, not Palestine's decision to join a treaty to which over 100 countries around the world are members.''. In January, when the preliminary ICC examination was opened, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described it as an outrage, saying the court was overstepping its boundaries. The United States also said it ``strongly'' disagreed with the court's decision. ``As we have said repeatedly, we do not believe that Palestine is a state and therefore we do not believe that it is eligible to join the ICC,'' the State Department said in a statement. It urged the warring sides to resolve their differences through direct negotiations. ``We will continue to oppose actions against Israel at the ICC as counterproductive to the cause of peace,'' it said. But the ICC begs to differ with the definition of a state for its purposes and refers to the territories as ``Palestine.''. While a preliminary examination is not a formal investigation, it allows the court to review evidence and determine whether to investigate suspects on both sides. Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said her office would ``conduct its analysis in full independence and impartiality.''. The war between Israel and Hamas militants in Gaza last summer left more than 2,000 people dead. The inquiry will include alleged war crimes committed since June. The International Criminal Court was set up in 2002 to prosecute genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. CNN's Vasco Cotovio, Kareem Khadder and Faith Karimi contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Governments around the world are using the threat of terrorism -- real or perceived -- to advance executions, Amnesty International alleges in its annual report on the death penalty. ``The dark trend of governments using the death penalty in a futile attempt to tackle real or imaginary threats to state security and public safety was stark last year,'' said Salil Shetty, Amnesty's Secretary General in a release. ``It is shameful that so many states around the world are essentially playing with people's lives -- putting people to death for `terrorism' or to quell internal instability on the ill-conceived premise of deterrence.''. The report, ``Death Sentences and Executions 2014,'' cites the example of Pakistan lifting a six-year moratorium on the execution of civilians following the horrific attack on a school in Peshawar in December. China is also mentioned, as having used the death penalty as a tool in its ``Strike Hard'' campaign against terrorism in the restive far-western province of Xinjiang. The annual report catalogs the use of state-sanctioned killing as a punitive measure across the globe, and this year's edition contains some mixed findings. On one hand, the number of executions worldwide has gone down by almost 22 % on the previous year. At least 607 people were executed around the world in 2014, compared to 778 in 2013. Amnesty's figures do not include statistics on executions carried out in China, where information on the practice is regarded as a state secret. Belarus and Vietnam, too, do not release data on death penalty cases. ``The long-term trend is definitely positive -- we are seeing a decrease in the number of executions ( worldwide ),'' Audrey Gaughran, Amnesty's Director of Global Issues, told CNN. ``A number of countries are closer to abolition, and there are some signs that some countries will be abolitionist by 2015. ( There are ) signals of a world that is nearing abolition.''. While the report notes some encouraging signs, it also highlights a marked increase in the number of people sentenced to death in 2014. At least 2,466 people globally are confirmed to have been handed the sentence last year, an increase of 28 % compared with 2013. The report notes that the spike in sentencing is attributable to mass-sentencing in countries including Egypt and Nigeria, ``against scores of people in some cases.''. The organization found ``positive developments'' worldwide, with most regions seeming to show reductions in the number of executions. Opinion : Sharp spike in death sentences. Sub-Saharan Africa, for example, saw a 28 % fall in reported cases, and executions recorded in the Middle East and North Africa were down 23 % compared to 2013. ``Even though we've highlighted some of the negative developments.. I think we would always highlight that there are positive developments,'' Gaughran said. ``Across the board, with the exception of Europe and Central Asia there were fewer reports of executions in every region.''. The resumption of the use of capital punishment in Belarus -- the only country in Europe and Central Asia to execute people -- after a two year hiatus spoiled an near-universal decrease in countries using the death penalty by region. The United States has the dubious distinction of being the only country in the Americas to conduct executions, but the number of convicts put to death here fell slightly, from 39 in 2013 to 35 in 2014. The state of Washington also imposed a moratorium on executions last year. The U.S. remains one of the worst offenders for imposing capital punishment, with only Iran ( 289 + ), Iraq ( 61 + ), and Saudi Arabia ( 90 + ) executing more people in 2014. While figures are not available, Amnesty estimates that China also executes ``thousands'' of prisoners each year, ``more than the rest of the world put together.''. The report also highlights the imperfections in the judiciary processes that lead to many sentenced to death. ``In the majority of countries where people were sentenced to death or executed, the death penalty was imposed after proceedings that did not meet international fair trial standards,'' the report stated. ``In 2014 Amnesty International raised particular concerns in relation to court proceedings in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Sri Lanka.''. The United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, last year stressed the need to move toward abolition of capital punishment. ``The taking of life is too irreversible for one human being to inflict it on another,'' he said, in marking World Day against Death Penalty in October. ``We must continue to argue strongly that the death penalty is unjust and incompatible with fundamental human rights.''. Amnesty estimates that at least 19,094 people were believed to be on death row at the end of 2014.
( CNN ) On May 28, 2014, some 7,000 people gathered in a stadium in China's northwestern Xinjiang region. But they had not come to watch the local football team or any other grand sporting event. Instead, the authorities paraded scores of prisoners dressed in orange jumpsuits. Armed soldiers guarded the exits. In the patently unfair, open air trial that followed, 55 people were found guilty of a range of offenses linked to violent attacks in the region and jailed. Three were sentenced to death. The public mass sentencing was part a China's ``Strike Hard'' campaign against unrest in Xinjiang, a campaign the government claims was launched to combat ``terrorism'' and ``separatism.'' But it was also indicative of a trend that was starkly evident last year around the world -- governments using the death penalty in a misguided, and often cynical, attempt to tackle crime and terrorism. Today, Amnesty International releases its annual review of the death penalty worldwide. Much of it makes for grim reading. In Pakistan, the government lifted a six-year moratorium on the execution of civilians in the wake of the horrific Taliban attack on a school in Peshawar in December. More than 60 people have been put to death since, and the government has threatened to send thousands more death row prisoners to the gallows. Iran and Iraq executed people for ``terrorism,'' and other countries expanded the scope of capital crimes in their penal codes. In a year when abhorrent summary executions by armed groups were branded on the global consciousness as never before, governments are themselves resorting to more executions in a knee-jerk reaction to terrorism. Other countries made use of executions in similarly flawed attempts to address -- or appear to address -- crime rates. Jordan ended an eight-year moratorium in December, putting 11 murder convicts to death, with the government saying it was a move to end a surge in violent crime. In Indonesia, authorities announced plans to execute mainly drug traffickers to tackle a public safety ``national emergency.'' Six people have already been executed this year. A sharp spike in death sentences recorded in 2014 -- up more than 500 on the previous year -- can also be attributed to governments using the death penalty as a political tool. The rise was largely because of developments in Egypt and Nigeria, where courts imposed hundreds of death sentences in the context of internal political instability or crime and armed conflict. The simple fact is that governments using the death penalty to tackle crime and security threats are deceiving themselves or the public or both. There is no evidence that the threat of execution is more of a deterrent to crime than a prison sentence, as United Nations and other studies have repeatedly confirmed. It is high time that world leaders stop using the death penalty as an easy way out when times get tough. At Amnesty International, we have campaigned for an end to the death penalty for decades. Thankfully, most of the world now appears to agree with us. The numbers speak for themselves. In 1945 when the United Nations was founded, only eight countries had abolished the death penalty. Today, 140 states are abolitionist in law or practice. Last year, we recorded executions in 22 countries, down by almost a half from 20 years ago. Despite the troubling developments we recorded last year, there was still much good news to be found. The number of executions recorded around the world dropped significantly in 2014 compared with the previous year, from 778 to 607. This number does not include China, where more people are put to death than the rest of the world put together, but with death penalty statistics treated as a state secret, the true figure is impossible to determine. Executions were recorded in only three countries in sub-Saharan Africa -- Equatorial Guinea, Somalia and Sudan -- and the number of people put to death went down by more than a quarter. The Americas continued to be execution-free, apart from the United States. Those governments that still execute need to realize that they are on the wrong side of history. They must join the vast majority of countries which have dropped the ultimate cruel punishment. Fighting for an end to the death penalty remains an uphill task, but all of us must try to make the world free of this punishment. With determination, I know that we can achieve this goal.
( CNN ) Seventy years ago, Anne Frank died of typhus in a Nazi concentration camp at the age of 15. Just two weeks after her supposed death on March 31, 1945, the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp where she had been imprisoned was liberated -- timing that showed how close the Jewish diarist had been to surviving the Holocaust. But new research released by the Anne Frank House shows that Anne and her older sister, Margot Frank, died at least a month earlier than previously thought. Researchers re-examined archives of the Red Cross, the International Training Service and the Bergen-Belsen Memorial, along with testimonies of survivors. They concluded that Anne and Margot probably did not survive to March 1945 -- contradicting the date of death which had previously been determined by Dutch authorities. In 1944, Anne and seven others hiding in the Amsterdam secret annex were arrested and sent to the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. Anne Frank's final entry. That same year, Anne and Margot were separated from their mother and sent away to work as slave labor at the Bergen-Belsen camp in Germany. Days at the camp were filled with terror and dread, witnesses said. The sisters stayed in a section of the overcrowded camp with no lighting, little water and no latrine. They slept on lice-ridden straw and violent storms shredded the tents, according to the researchers. Like the other prisoners, the sisters endured long hours at roll call. Her classmate, Nannette Blitz, recalled seeing Anne there in December 1944 : ``She was no more than a skeleton by then. She was wrapped in a blanket ; she couldn't bear to wear her clothes anymore because they were crawling with lice.''. Listen to Anne Frank's friends describe her concentration camp experience. As the Russians advanced further, the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp became even more crowded, bringing more disease. A deadly typhus outbreak caused thousands to die each day. Typhus is an infectious disease caused by lice that breaks out in places with poor hygiene. The disease causes high fever, chills and skin eruptions. ``Because of the lice infesting the bedstraw and her clothes, Anne was exposed to the main carrier of epidemic typhus for an extended period,'' museum researchers wrote. They concluded that it's unlikely the sisters survived until March, because witnesses at the camp said the sisters both had symptoms before February 7. ``Most deaths caused by typhus occur around twelve days after the first symptoms appear,'' wrote authors Erika Prins and Gertjan Broek. The exact dates of death for Anne and Margot remain unclear. Margot died before Anne. ``Anne never gave up hope,'' said Blitz, her friend. ``She was absolutely convinced she would survive.''. Her diary endures as one of the world's most popular books. Read more about Anne Frank's cousin, a keeper of her legacy.
( CNN ) A Duke student has admitted to hanging a noose made of rope from a tree near a student union, university officials said Thursday. The prestigious private school didn't identify the student, citing federal privacy laws. In a news release, it said the student was no longer on campus and will face student conduct review. The student was identified during an investigation by campus police and the office of student affairs and admitted to placing the noose on the tree early Wednesday, the university said. Officials are still trying to determine if other people were involved. Criminal investigations into the incident are ongoing as well. Students and faculty members marched Wednesday afternoon chanting ``We are not afraid. We stand together,'' after pictures of the noose were passed around on social media. At a forum held on the steps of Duke Chapel, close to where the noose was discovered at 2 a.m., hundreds of people gathered. ``You came here for the reason that you want to say with me, `This is no Duke we will accept. This is no Duke we want. This is not the Duke we're here to experience. And this is not the Duke we're here to create,''' Duke President Richard Brodhead told the crowd. The incident is one of several recent racist events to affect college students. Last month a fraternity at the University of Oklahoma had its charter removed after a video surfaced showing members using the N-word and referring to lynching in a chant. Two students were expelled. In February, a noose was hung around the neck of a statue of a famous civil rights figure at the University of Mississippi. A statement issued by Duke said there was a previous report of hate speech directed at students on campus. In the news release, the vice president for student affairs called the noose incident a ``cowardly act.''. ``To whomever committed this hateful and stupid act, I just want to say that if your intent was to create fear, it will have the opposite effect,'' Larry Moneta said Wednesday. Duke University is a private college with about 15,000 students in Durham, North Carolina. CNN's Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The Rev. Robert H. Schuller, California televangelist and founder of the television ministry ``Hour of Power,'' died Thursday, according to his family. He was 88 years old. Schuller, also the founder of Crystal Cathedral megachurch, had been diagnosed with esophageal cancer in August 2013, a release from ``Hour of Power'' said. ``My father-in-law passed away peacefully early this morning. He was a great Dad and a great man of God,'' said Schuller's daughter-in-law, Donna Schuller, in a Twitter message. Schuller's life followed an almost Shakespearean arc. He was born in a Iowa farmhouse without running water and longed to preach from his earliest days. In his autobiography, ``Prayer : My Soul's Adventure with God,'' he described standing alone by a river and picturing himself delivering sermons to a rapt congregation. After attending a Hope College and Western Theological Seminary in Michigan, he met his wife of more than 60 years, Arvella, while preaching at her church ( she was the organist ). With their young family in tow, the Schullers caravanned west to California, where he rented a drive-in theater and preached from the roof of the snack bar. It was beneath the dignity of Christian ministry, some local pastors huffed. The ``passion pits'' where teenagers necked was no place for the gospel. Schuller was undeterred, and he quickly outgrew the drive-in. He called the explosive growth of his tiny congregation a ``miracle,'' though his many mainstream critics had other names for it. His confident, breezy version of Christianity -- too breezy, by some estimations -- drew hordes of seekers and lapsed Christians who were put off by the hellfire fulminations of many post-War American preachers. Schuller sold a softer, gentler message, which borrowed heavily, he acknowledged, from the father of the feel-good gospel, Norman Vincent Peale. He preached not to convert or condemn people, but to encourage them, a sentiment he called ``possibility thinking.''. People loved it. ``Evangelicalism at its best wants to be innovative and reach people,'' said Timothy Larsen, a professor of Christian thought at Wheaton College in Illinois. ``And Schuller was a master at that.''. ``What he got right is that the gospel is good news,'' Larsen continued. ``And he preached an uplifting message about personal transformation and uplift and hope.''. Some of Schuller's favored phrases, though, struck others as cornpone Christianity. ``Turn your hurt into a halo ?'' said Randall Balmer, a professor of American religious history at Dartmouth College, citing one such phrase. ``That's pretty weak tea.''. Still, Balmer gives Schuller some credit. ``It may be bad theology, but it's brilliant marketing.''. In 1970, Schuller began broadcasting ``Hour of Power,'' believed to be one of the first, if not the very first, Sunday service to be shown regularly on television. With his genial smile, priestly robes and gray hair, he looked and talked like a guy who wanted nothing more than to see his flock succeed. The show, which ran for decades, reached millions, making Schuller a televangelist before the term became tarnished by the sins of his many successors. Schuller's crowning achievement, at least architecturally, still stands in Orange County, California, though it is now owned by the Roman Catholic Church. The Crystal Cathedral, a great gleaming edifice with 10,000 glass panels, gave worshipers a look at the clouds that house the heavens, while Schuller preached in the pulpit below. The message was clear to many : The road to the former ran through the latter. During the 1980s and 1990s, Schuller's star continued to rise, with presidents stopping by the Crystal Cathedral -- often during campaigns, it should be said -- and future megachurch pastors like Rick Warren and Bill Hybels seeking his advice. As Schuller aged, though, his family was beset by a succession scandal straight from the pages of ``King Lear.'' He tried to install his only son, Bobby Jr., as pastor of Crystal Cathedral. But the preaching styles of father and son were too different for the congregation -- measured at times at 10,000 strong -- to countenance. Bobby Schuller Jr. left ``Hour of Power'' and the pulpit at Crystal Cathedral after a short time. As the family searched for a new successor and tussled over finances, viewers and donations to the church and its television show dropped precipitously. Crystal Cathedral Ministries filed for bankruptcy in 2010, citing debts of more than $ 43 million, according to The Associated Press. Schuller's empire, which once soared as high as his glassy cathedral, had fallen to dust. Eventually, Schuller's grandson, also named Bobby, took over ``Hour of Power,'' though at a different church. In a statement on Thursday, the younger Schuller recalled standing atop Crystal Cathedral's 12-story Tower of Hope with his grandfather as they surveyed the surrounding landscape. ``You could see the whole world from there,'' he said. People we've lost in 2015. CNN's Stella Chan reported from Los Angeles.
( CNN ) Never mind cats having nine lives. A stray pooch in Washington State has used up at least three of her own after being hit by a car, apparently whacked on the head with a hammer in a misguided mercy killing and then buried in a field -- only to survive. That's according to Washington State University, where the dog -- a friendly white-and-black bully breed mix now named Theia -- has been receiving care at the Veterinary Teaching Hospital. Four days after her apparent death, the dog managed to stagger to a nearby farm, dirt-covered and emaciated, where she was found by a worker who took her to a vet for help. She was taken in by Moses Lake, Washington, resident Sara Mellado. ``Considering everything that she's been through, she's incredibly gentle and loving,'' Mellado said, according to WSU News. ``She's a true miracle dog and she deserves a good life.''. Theia is only one year old but the dog's brush with death did not leave her unscathed. She suffered a dislocated jaw, leg injuries and a caved-in sinus cavity -- and still requires surgery to help her breathe. The veterinary hospital's Good Samaritan Fund committee awarded some money to help pay for the dog's treatment, but Mellado has set up a fundraising page to help meet the remaining cost of the dog's care. She's also created a Facebook page to keep supporters updated. Donors have already surpassed the $ 10,000 target, inspired by Theia's tale of survival against the odds. On the fundraising page, Mellado writes, ``She is in desperate need of extensive medical procedures to fix her nasal damage and reset her jaw. I agreed to foster her until she finally found a loving home.''. She is dedicated to making sure Theia gets the medical attention she needs, Mellado adds, and wants to ``make sure she gets placed in a family where this will never happen to her again !''. Any additional funds raised will be ``paid forward'' to help other animals. Theia is not the only animal to apparently rise from the grave in recent weeks. A cat in Tampa, Florida, found seemingly dead after he was hit by a car in January, showed up alive in a neighbor's yard five days after he was buried by his owner. The cat was in bad shape, with maggots covering open wounds on his body and a ruined left eye, but remarkably survived with the help of treatment from the Humane Society.
( CNN ) If you've been following the news lately, there are certain things you doubtless know about Mohammad Javad Zarif. He is, of course, the Iranian foreign minister. He has been U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry's opposite number in securing a breakthrough in nuclear discussions that could lead to an end to sanctions against Iran -- if the details can be worked out in the coming weeks. And he received a hero's welcome as he arrived in Iran on a sunny Friday morning. ``Long live Zarif,'' crowds chanted as his car rolled slowly down the packed street. You may well have read that he is ``polished'' and, unusually for one burdened with such weighty issues, ``jovial.'' An Internet search for ``Mohammad Javad Zarif'' and ``jovial'' yields thousands of results. He certainly has gone a long way to bring Iran in from the cold and allow it to rejoin the international community. But there are some facts about Zarif that are less well-known. Here are six :. In September 2013, Zarif tweeted ``Happy Rosh Hashanah,'' referring to the Jewish New Year. That prompted Christine Pelosi, the daughter of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, to respond with a tweet of her own : ``Thanks. The New Year would be even sweeter if you would end Iran's Holocaust denial, sir.''. And, perhaps to her surprise, Pelosi got a response. ``Iran never denied it,'' Zarif tweeted back. ``The man who was perceived to be denying it is now gone. Happy New Year.''. The reference was likely to former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who had left office the previous month. Zarif was nominated to be foreign minister by Ahmadinejad's successor, Hassan Rouhami. His foreign ministry notes, perhaps defensively, that ``due to the political and security conditions of the time, he decided to continue his education in the United States.''. That is another way of saying that he was outside the country during the demonstrations against the Shah of Iran, which began in 1977, and during the Iranian Revolution, which drove the shah from power in 1979. Zarif left the country in 1977, received his undergraduate degree from San Francisco State University in 1981, his master's in international relations from the University of Denver in 1984 and his doctorate from the University of Denver in 1988. Both of his children were born in the United States. The website of the Iranian Foreign Ministry, which Zarif runs, can not even agree with itself on when he was born. The first sentence of his official biography, perhaps in a nod to the powers that be in Tehran, says Zarif was ``born to a religious traditional family in Tehran in 1959.'' Later on the same page, however, his date of birth is listed as January 8, 1960. And the Iranian Diplomacy website says he was born in in 1961. So he is 54, 55 or maybe even 56. Whichever, he is still considerably younger than his opposite number, Kerry, who is 71. The feds investigated him over his alleged role in controlling the Alavi Foundation, a charitable organization. The U.S. Justice Department said the organization was secretly run on behalf of the Iranian government to launder money and get around U.S. sanctions. But last year, a settlement in the case, under which the foundation agreed to give a 36-story building in Manhattan along with other properties to the U.S. government, did not mention Zarif's name. Early in the Iranian Revolution, Zarif was among the students who took over the Iranian Consulate in San Francisco. The aim, says the website Iranian.com -- which cites Zarif's memoirs, titled ``Mr. Ambassador'' -- was to expel from the consulate people who were not sufficiently Islamic. Later, the website says, Zarif went to make a similar protest at the Iranian mission to the United Nations. In response, the Iranian ambassador to the United Nations offered him a job. In fact, he has now spent more time with Kerry than any other foreign minister in the world. And that amount of quality time will only increase as the two men, with help from other foreign ministers as well, try to meet a June 30 deadline for nailing down the details of the agreement they managed to outline this week in Switzerland.
( CNN ) For the first time in eight years, a TV legend returned to doing what he does best. Contestants told to ``come on down !'' on the April 1 edition of ``The Price Is Right'' encountered not host Drew Carey but another familiar face in charge of the proceedings. Instead, there was Bob Barker, who hosted the TV game show for 35 years before stepping down in 2007. Looking spry at 91, Barker handled the first price-guessing game of the show, the classic ``Lucky Seven,'' before turning hosting duties over to Carey, who finished up. Despite being away from the show for most of the past eight years, Barker didn't seem to miss a beat.
( CNN ) He's a blue chip college basketball recruit. She's a high school freshman with Down syndrome. At first glance Trey Moses and Ellie Meredith couldn't be more different. But all that changed Thursday when Trey asked Ellie to be his prom date. Trey -- a star on Eastern High School's basketball team in Louisville, Kentucky, who's headed to play college ball next year at Ball State -- was originally going to take his girlfriend to Eastern's prom. So why is he taking Ellie instead ? ``She's great.. she listens and she's easy to talk to'' he said. Trey made the prom-posal ( yes, that's what they are calling invites to prom these days ) in the gym during Ellie's P.E. class. Trina Helson, a teacher at Eastern, alerted the school's newspaper staff to the prom-posal and posted photos of Trey and Ellie on Twitter that have gone viral. She wasn't surpristed by Trey's actions. ``That's the kind of person Trey is,'' she said. To help make sure she said yes, Trey entered the gym armed with flowers and a poster that read ``Let's Party Like it's 1989,'' a reference to the latest album by Taylor Swift, Ellie's favorite singer. Trey also got the OK from Ellie's parents the night before via text. They were thrilled. ``You just feel numb to those moments raising a special needs child,'' said Darla Meredith, Ellie's mom. ``You first feel the need to protect and then to overprotect.''. Darla Meredith said Ellie has struggled with friendships since elementary school, but a special program at Eastern called Best Buddies had made things easier for her. She said Best Buddies cultivates friendships between students with and without developmental disabilities and prevents students like Ellie from feeling isolated and left out of social functions. ``I guess around middle school is when kids started to care about what others thought,'' she said, but ``this school, this year has been a relief.''. Trey's future coach at Ball State, James Whitford, said he felt great about the prom-posal, noting that Trey, whom he's known for a long time, often works with other kids. Trey's mother, Shelly Moses, was also proud of her son. ``It's exciting to bring awareness to a good cause,'' she said. ``Trey has worked pretty hard, and he's a good son.''. Both Trey and Ellie have a lot of planning to do. Trey is looking to take up special education as a college major, in addition to playing basketball in the fall. As for Ellie, she can't stop thinking about prom. ``Ellie can't wait to go dress shopping'' her mother said. ``Because I've only told about a million people !'' Ellie interjected.
( CNN ) Michele Bachmann is comparing President Obama to the co-pilot of the doomed Germanwings flight. ``With his Iran deal, Barack Obama is for the 300 million souls of the United States what Andreas Lubitz was for the 150 souls on the German Wings flight - a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks,'' the Minnesota Republican and former representative wrote in a Facebook comment posted March 31. ``After the fact, among the smoldering remains of American cities, the shocked survivors will ask, why did he do it ?''. Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot of Germanwings Flight 9525, is accused by authorities of deliberately crashing the plane in the French Alps. He died in the crash along with 149 other crew and passengers. The motive of the March 24 crash is under investigation, though investigators are looking in to whether Lubitz feared a medical condition would cause him to lose his pilot's license. Many comments posted on her Facebook page blasted the former representative. Melissa Coca wrote, ``Comparing this tragedy to anything is moronic and despicable.'' Michael J Pristash wrote, ``Your allusion is so inappropriate and divisive, not to mention disrespectful on so many levels. Shame on you.''. Some also accused her of taking desperate measures to stay in the public eye. Lynda Anderson wrote, ``Posting outrageous things in a pathetic attempt to stay relevant ?''. Negotiations are coming down to the wire between Iran, the United States and other nations on restricting Tehran's nuclear program to prevent the ability to develop an atomic bomb. One deadline passed Tuesday, but there is a June 30 deadline for a comprehensive deal -- with all technical and diplomatic impasses fully worked out. Bachmann is no stranger to voicing her opinion on the President's dealing with Iran, personally telling him to ``bomb Iran'' during the 2014 White House Christmas Party. ``I turned to the president and I said, something to the effect of, `Mr. President, you need to bomb the Iranian nuclear facilities, because if you don't, Iran will have a nuclear weapon on your watch and the course of world history will change,''' she told the Washington Free Beacon. The congresswoman, who sought the GOP presidential nomination in 2012, said Obama had a ``condescending smile on his face and laughed at me.''. She said he told her : ``Well Michele, it's just not that easy.''
Los Angeles ( CNN ) It's more than just one state's internal problem. The historic California drought hurts the rest of the union, too. That's because California is a breadbasket to the nation, growing more than a third of its vegetables and nearly two-thirds of its fruits and nuts. Here's why we should heed the ongoing drought in the most populous state, a slowly expanding natural disaster now in its fourth year that this week prompted Gov. Jerry Brown to announce a mandatory 25 % cutback in water consumption in all cities. In 2014, one expert predicted consumers would pay more for some groceries because of the California drought. He was often right, according to statistics gathered by Timothy Richards, agribusiness professor at Arizona State University. Prices rose last year for these items on your kitchen table :. • Berries rose in price by about 80 cents per clamshell to $ 3.88. • Broccoli by 11 cents per pound to $ 1.89. • Grapes by 64 cents a pound to $ 3.06. • Melons by 24 cents a pound to $ 1.23. • Packaged salad by 23 cents a bag to $ 2.91. • Peppers by 26 cents a pound to $ 2.39. Though fruits and vegetable prices fell in February, overall prices are expected to rise this year, because of inflation, U.S. Department of Agriculture economist Annemarie Kuhns said. Fresh fruit prices are projected to rise between 2.5 % and 3.5 %, and vegetables between 2 % and 3 %, close to historical average increases, Kuhns said. Whether the California drought will affect food prices again this year is unknown, thanks to a strong dollar. The greenback's strength allows producers to import crops that may be withering under the absence of West Coast rain or other misfortunes elsewhere in the nation, Kuhns said. Moreover, the drop in oil prices also eases the cost of transporting food from California to the other 49 states, she said. What economists don't know yet is whether farmers will plant fewer crops because of the drought. Those decisions are now being made in the field and could boost supermarket prices, she said. ``The drought in California does have the potential to impact the price we pay for fresh fruit and fresh vegetables and dairy and fresh eggs we pay at the counter,'' Kuhns said. ``We are not sure what the exact impact will be.''. The reality is there's a major drought throughout the West and Southwest. While not as bad as California, Texas and Oklahoma are also seeing extreme and exceptional drought -- the two worst categories -- in several parts of their states, the U.S. Drought Monitor said this week. Overall, the Western drought affects more than 52 million people, the monitor says. As a result, consumers paid a whopping extra 12.1 % for beef and veal in 2014, the USDA reports. Straining under a drought that began in 2012, ranchers in Texas and Oklahoma last year saw smaller grazing pastures, paid more for feed, and experienced difficulties accessing water to cool their cattle. So the cattlemen began culling their herds, Kuhns said. This year's beef and veal prices should rise only by 6 % at most, still higher than the 4.1 % historical average, the feds project. But beef prices offer an object lesson about the drought. ``There's other areas being affected,'' Kuhns said. It's called the Golden State for the gold rush of yore, but let's face it : the rest of the nation flocks to California for vacation because of another golden reason. Its year-round sunshine. So the next time you take a holiday in California, you'll find a few changes around here, thanks to the drought. Like asking for a glass of water at a restaurant. You won't find water waiting for you on the table. Eateries now ``can only serve water to customers on request,'' the State Water Resources Control Board declared in March under expanded emergency regulations. Tourists can also expect to hear a lot of requests at hotels about whether they want their linens and towels laundered daily. These requests are mandatory under the new regulations. And they'll see fewer homes running decorative fountains. Because much of the snowpack in the Sierra Nevada has alarmingly disappeared, many ski resorts shut down early this year, including at Lake Tahoe, and some are now building zip lines, mountain bike trails and wedding venues to keep tourists coming, the Sacramento Bee reported. ``If the drought continues through next winter and we do not conserve more, the consequences could be even more catastrophic than they already are,'' State Water Board Chair Felicia Marcus said in March. But what about those yummy California wines, you ask ?. Guess what. They're only getting better -- because of the drought. Yes, you read that right. The 2014 wine grape harvest was ``third in a string of great vintages this decade,'' the Wine Institute says. ``California vintners and growers across the state are grateful for another excellent vintage, despite an ongoing drought and earthquake that rocked south Napa in late August just as crush was getting underway,'' the institute said in a statement last year. ``A mild winter and spring caused early bud break, although the overall length of the growing season was similar to past years.''. Wine grapes use relatively low water, said institute spokeswoman Gladys Horiuchi. ``Yes, drought years tend to produce terrific quality,'' she added. ``With the record high California wine grape harvests in 2012, 2013 and 2014, there is a good supply of California wine.''. That may be the only thing to toast about this drought.
( CNN ) As goes Walmart, so goes the nation ?. Everyone from Apple CEO Tim Cook to the head of the NCAA slammed religious freedom laws being considered in several states this week, warning that they would open the door to discrimination against gay and lesbian customers. But it was the opposition from Walmart, the ubiquitous retailer that dots the American landscape, that perhaps resonated most deeply, providing the latest evidence of growing support for gay rights in the heartland. Walmart's staunch criticism of a religious freedom law in its home state of Arkansas came after the company said in February it would boost pay for about 500,000 workers well above the federal minimum wage. Taken together, the company is emerging as a bellwether for shifting public opinion on hot-button political issues that divide conservatives and liberals. And some prominent Republicans are urging the party to take notice. Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, who famously called on the GOP to ``be the party of Sam's Club, not just the country club,'' told CNN that Walmart's actions ``foreshadow where the Republican Party will need to move.''. ``The Republican Party will have to better stand for'' ideas on helping the middle class, said Pawlenty, the head of the Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington lobbying group for the finance industry. The party's leaders must be ``willing to put forward ideas that will help modest income workers, such as a reasonable increase in the minimum wage, and prohibit discrimination in things such as jobs, housing, public accommodation against gays and lesbians.''. Walmart, which employs more than 50,000 people in Arkansas, emerged victorious on Wednesday. Hours after the company's CEO, Doug McMillon, called on Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson to veto the bill, the governor held a news conference and announced he would not sign the legislation unless its language was fixed. Walmart's opposition to the religious freedom law once again puts the company at odds with many in the Republican Party, which the company's political action committee has tended to support. In 2004, the Walmart PAC gave around $ 2 million to Republicans versus less than $ 500,000 to Democrats, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics. That gap has grown less pronounced in recent years. In 2014, the PAC spent about $ 1.3 million to support Republicans and around $ 970,000 for Democrats. It has been a gradual transformation for Walmart. In 2011, the company bulked up its nondiscrimination policies by adding protections for gender identity. Two years later, the company announced that it would start offering health insurance benefits to same-sex partners of employees starting in 2014. Retail experts say Walmart's evolution on these issues over the years is partly a reflection of its diverse consumer base, as well as a recognition of the country's increasingly progressive views of gay equality ( support for same-sex marriage is at a new high of 59 %, according to a recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll ). ``It's easy for someone like a Chick-fil-A to take a really polarizing position,'' said Dwight Hill, a partner at the retail consulting firm McMillanDoolittle. ``But in the world of the largest retailer in the world, that's very different.''. Hill added : Same-sex marriage, ``while divisive, it's becoming more common place here within the U.S., and the businesses by definition have to follow the trend of their customer.''. The backlash over the religious freedom measures in Indiana and Arkansas this week is shining a bright light on the broader business community's overwhelming support for workplace policies that promote gay equality. After Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, a Republican, signed his state's religious freedom bill into law, CEOs of companies big and small across the country threatened to pull out of the Hoosier state. The resistance came from business leaders of all political persuasions, including Bill Oesterle, CEO of the business-rating website Angie's List and a one-time campaign manager for former Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels. Oesterle announced that his company would put plans on hold to expand its footprint in Indianapolis in light of the state's passage of the religious freedom act. NASCAR, scheduled to hold a race in Indianapolis this summer, also spoke out against the Indiana law. ``What we're seeing over the past week is a tremendous amount of support from the business community who are standing up and are sending that equality is good for business and discrimination is bad for business,'' said Jason Rahlan, spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign. The debate has reached presidential politics. National Republicans are being forced to walk the fine line of protecting religious liberties and supporting nondiscrimination. Likely GOP presidential candidate Jeb Bush initially backed Indiana's religious freedom law and Pence, but moderated his tone a few days later. The former Florida governor said Wednesday that Indiana could have taken a ``better'' and ``more consensus-oriented approach.''. ``By the end of the week, Indiana will be in the right place,'' Bush said, a reference to Pence's promise this week to fix his state's law in light of the widespread backlash. Others in the GOP field are digging in. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, the only officially declared Republican presidential candidate, said Wednesday that he had no interest in second-guessing Pence and lashed out at the business community for opposing the law. ``I think it is unfortunate that large companies today are listening to the extreme left wing agenda that is driven by an aggressive gay marriage agenda,'' Cruz said. Meanwhile, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who previously served on Walmart's board of directors, called on Hutchinson to veto the Arkansas bill, saying it would ``permit unfair discrimination'' against the LGBT community. Jay Chesshir, CEO of the Little Rock Regional Chamber of Commerce in Arkansas, welcomed Hutchinson's pledge on Wednesday to seek changes to his state's bill. He said businesses are not afraid to wade into a politically controversial debate to ensure inclusive workplace policies. ``When it comes to culture and quality of life, businesses are extremely interested in engaging in debate simply because it impacts its more precious resource -- and that's its people,'' Chesshir said. ``Therefore, when issues arise that have negative or positive impact on those things, then the business community will again speak and speak loudly.''
( CNN ) Five Americans who were monitored for three weeks at an Omaha, Nebraska, hospital after being exposed to Ebola in West Africa have been released, a Nebraska Medicine spokesman said in an email Wednesday. One of the five had a heart-related issue on Saturday and has been discharged but hasn't left the area, Taylor Wilson wrote. The others have already gone home. They were exposed to Ebola in Sierra Leone in March, but none developed the deadly virus. They are clinicians for Partners in Health, a Boston-based aid group. They all had contact with a colleague who was diagnosed with the disease and is being treated at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. As of Monday, that health care worker is in fair condition. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta has said the last of 17 patients who were being monitored are expected to be released by Thursday. More than 10,000 people have died in a West African epidemic of Ebola that dates to December 2013, according to the World Health Organization. Almost all the deaths have been in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Ebola is spread by direct contact with the bodily fluids of an infected person.
( CNN ) Andrew Getty, one of the heirs to billions of oil money, appears to have died of natural causes, a Los Angeles Police Department spokesman said. The coroner's preliminary assessment is there was no foul play involved in the death of Getty, grandson of oil tycoon J. Paul Getty, said Detective Meghan Aguilar. Andrew Getty, 47, had ``several health issues,'' Aguilar said, adding that an autopsy will be conducted. There is no criminal investigation underway, he said. Some medication had also been recovered from Getty's home, though investigators don't know whether Getty was taking it or what his medical history was, Ed Winter, assistant chief in the Los Angeles County coroner's office, told CNN affiliate KTLA Tuesday night. KTLA reported that Getty was found on his side near a bathroom in his home. Getty's parents, Ann and Gordon Getty, released a statement confirming their son's death and asking for privacy. Where the Getty family fortune came from. Gordon Getty is one of three living sons of J. Paul Getty, the oil baron who was thought to be the richest man in the world at the time of his death in 1976. Gordon Getty, 81, has a net worth of $ 2.1 billion, according to Forbes. One other son died in 1958 and another died in 1973. Gordon Getty spearheaded the controversial sale of Getty to Texaco for $ 10 billion in 1984. In its list of richest American families, Forbes estimated the Gettys' net worth to be about $ 5 billion. Court records show Andrew Getty had recently filed to get a restraining order against an ex-girlfriend. A hearing in the case had been scheduled for next week. In his request, Getty said he had been diagnosed with a serious medical condition in 2013. ``A rise in my blood pressure places me in grave risk of substantial and irreparable injury or death,'' he wrote in the petition. ``My doctors have advised that heated arguments can cause my blood pressure to rise dangerously.''. Andrew Getty had three brothers and three half-sisters. People we've lost in 2015. CNN's Doug Criss, Janet DiGiacomo, Mark Mooney, Mike Love, Julie In and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A year ago Bloomberg published a story with the following headline : Mike Pence, a Koch Favorite, Mulls 2016 Run for President. The story ticked off items on Pence's conservative things-to-do list while also noting his close ties to the deep-pocketed Koch brothers, as well as other right-wing lobbying groups. Last August the Indiana governor was in Dallas for an Americans for Prosperity event ; the group is backed by the conservative Koch brothers, and supported Gov. Pence's tax-slashing budget. Now, Pence is drawing huge heat for his controversial decision to sign a religious freedom law last week that opens the door to discrimination against gays and lesbians. Why would Pence ignore the pleas of Indiana's Chamber of Commerce as well as the Republican mayor of his state capital and sign such a bill ? Because there's a very powerful wing of his party that wants a conservative as its 2016 candidate and this bill was Pence's way of shoring up his street cred. It is also the reason why Republican Jeb Bush, Pence's fellow White House hopeful, who is viewed as a little light in that category, was first to rush in to defend Pence and the law. One lesson here : Just because more than 70 % of the country now lives in states where same-sex marriage is legal does not mean 70 % of the country is happy about it. Backlash aside, the fact is Pence has scored a lot of points this week among ultraconservatives. And while that may not be enough to get him over this political hump, the very public debate that now embroils him -- and Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, and likely 14 other states considering similar proposals this year -- is more than enough to drag the entire Republican field farther to the right than the party had hoped. Pence : `Was I expecting this kind of backlash ? Heavens no.'. For there is no way a Republican can get through the pending primary without denouncing LGBT rights, which unfortunately will turn numerous Americans into single-issue voters. I foolishly hoped the issue of LGBT rights would be a bit player in the 2016 general election, overshadowed by foreign policy and the economy. Instead it looks like it's going to be dragged down to a replay of Pat Buchanan's ``cultural war'' speech, during which he told the 1992 Republican National Convention : ``We stand with ( George H.W. Bush ) against the amoral idea that gay and lesbian couples should have the same standing in law as married men and women'' and later followed with ``There is a religious war going on in this country. It is a cultural war, as critical to the kind of nation we shall be as the Cold War itself. For this war is for the soul of America.''. Progressives may enjoy watching Pence's temporary fall from grace, but his policy rhetoric has echoed that of 2016 hopeful Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who has indicated a federal ban on same-sex marriage is not off the GOP table. And even if you think neither Pence nor Bush nor Cruz will win the nomination, someone has to. In light of that, listen to conservative former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, a potential 2016 candidate describing conservatives' discomfort with same-sex marriage : ``It's like asking someone who's Jewish to start serving bacon-wrapped shrimp in their deli.''. Or Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal : ``I certainly will support Ted Cruz and others that are talking about making.. a constitutional amendment to allow states to continue to define marriage.''. Or Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who has a long history of fighting against same-sex marriage and civil unions. And Ben Carson said jail turns people gay, so there's that. Remember : Pence didn't act alone. He only signed a bill that first passed muster with other elected officials. In fact, according to the American Civil Liberties Union, ``the Indiana RFRA -LSB- Religious Freedom Restoration Act -RSB- is one of 24 introduced in 15 states this year that could allow someone to use their religious beliefs to discriminate. Numerous other bills specifically single out the LGBT community for unequal treatment.''. Who supports, denounces Indiana law ?. Gallup Polls may suggest voters nationwide are more gay-friendly, but the trend on the state level tells a different story. Perhaps we're witnessing the final gasp of long-ago biases. Or maybe those biases are having a rebirth we had underestimated. Former Rep. Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the first member of Congress to marry someone of the same sex while in office, said he believes Republicans want the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex marriage to provide political cover in the GOP primary. ``We're winning,'' he told a crowd in Chicago recently while promoting his latest book. I guess if you look at where the country was on LGBT issues 10 years ago, we definitely are. That's assuming you are part of the ``we'' who believe LGBT people should have the same rights as their heterosexual/cisgender counterparts. But as the situation in Indiana has shown, ``winning'' should not be mistaken for having ``won.'' For it is doubtful that a candidate will be able to avoid taking a position on the wave of so-called ``religious freedom'' bills snaking through red-state legislatures. Or to sidestep the topic of a constitutional amendment when it's raised in a debate or at a campaign stop, especially with Republicans controlling both the House and the Senate. Pence, and to a lesser extent, Jeb Bush, may be toxic now but America has a short attention span. More importantly, they are not alone. Frank said when progressives get angry they march in the streets, and when conservatives get mad they march to the polls. If that holds true in 2016, ``winning'' is going to feel very strange.
( CNN ) Filipinos are being warned to be on guard for flash floods and landslides as tropical storm Maysak approached the Asian island nation Saturday. Just a few days ago, Maysak gained super typhoon status thanks to its sustained 150 mph winds. It has since lost a lot of steam as it has spun west in the Pacific Ocean. It's now classified as a tropical storm, according to the Philippine national weather service, which calls it a different name, Chedeng. It boasts steady winds of more than 70 mph ( 115 kph ) and gusts up to 90 mph as of 5 p.m. ( 5 a.m. ET ) Saturday. Still, that doesn't mean Maysak won't pack a wallop. Authorities took preemptive steps to keep people safe such as barring outdoor activities like swimming, surfing, diving and boating in some locales, as well as a number of precautionary evacuations. Gabriel Llave, a disaster official, told PNA that tourists who arrive Saturday in and around the coastal town of Aurora ``will not be accepted by the owners of hotels, resorts, inns and the like.. and will be advised to return to their respective places.''. Aldczar Aurelio, a meteorologist with the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration ( PAGASA ), said the storm was centered 200 miles southwest of Aurora province as of 5 p.m. ( 5 a.m. ET ) and heading west at a 12.5 mph clip. It's expected to make landfall Sunday morning on the southeastern coast of Isabela province and be out of the Philippines by Monday. Ahead of the storm. Isabela Gov. Faustino Dry III warned Saturday that residents should act as if this will be ``no ordinary typhoon.''. Dry told PNA, ``We do not know what the impact will be once it will make landfall.''
Norfolk, Virginia ( CNN ) The second mate of the Houston Express probably couldn't believe what he was seeing. Hundreds of miles from land there was a small boat nearby. At first it looked abandoned. It was in bad shape, listing to one side. The crew of the 1,000-foot long container ship thought it was a yacht that had wrecked. Incredibly, as they got closer, they saw there was a man on it, signaling for help. ``He was moving, walking around, waving to us and in surprisingly good condition,'' Capt. Thomas Grenz told CNN by phone Friday. That man, Louis Jordan, 37, had an amazing story. He'd been drifting on the 35-foot Pearson sailboat for more than two months since leaving Conway, South Carolina, to fish in the ocean. Just a few days into his trip, a storm capsized his boat and broke his mast. One of his shoulders was broken, too, so he couldn't fix the boat right away. Eventually he was able to rig a makeshift mast and sail, but he could make little headway against the currents. ``It took so long,'' Jordan said. ``It moved so slowly.''. The boat capsized two more times before he was rescued, according to Jordan. His father, Frank Jordan, told CNN's Jim Sciutto that he was expecting his son to look different. ``He looked good. Hadn't lost too much weight. He wasn't badly sunburned like I thought he probably would be,'' he said. Lost at sea for 66 days. After his food and water ran out, it became an issue of survival. Collecting fresh water was a nightmare for Jordan. The weather wouldn't cooperate. Records show there were more than a dozen storms off the coast of the Carolinas during the time he was missing. The precipitation came at night during harsh conditions. ``I had tried to collect ( rain ) water.. but every time the waves would splash into the boat,'' Jordan said. ``The waves would put saltwater into my freshwater and it tasted bad. ``Finally the conditions were right. I filled up my water tank, which is 25 gallons. I filled up a bucket.''. Then there was the issue of food. The fish weren't cooperating, but after a while Jordan learned they were attracted to his laundry, which he would put out to sea for a rinse. The fish would swim in and out of his clothes and he could easily scoop them up with a hand net, he said. Jordan came ashore Thursday evening. CNN affiliate WAVY in Norfolk, Virginia, reported that he was able to walk from the helicopter into Sentara Norfolk General Hospital about 7:30 p.m. Coast Guard officials have said they have found no reason to doubt Jordan's incredible story. They noted that his father contacted them January 29 to report his son and his boat missing. Frank Jordan addressed the skepticism about his son's appearance, saying the boat stayed afloat and upright most of the time. His son spent most of his days in the cabin, out of the sun. Frank Jordan said it was obvious when the Jordans met at the hospital Friday morning that his normally low-key and private son had been through an ordeal. ``I know he went through what he went through,'' Frank Jordan said. Jordan is an unemployed truck driver who lived on his boat at a marina in Conway. He had free rent and free food in the river, he said. But when it became difficult to catch dinner, he took off for the ocean in hopes he would land some bigger fish. Frank Jordan told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Thursday that he had worried about his son, who is an inexperienced sailor, but he held hope because his son had a good boat. And he had the strength to make it. ``He's got a very strong constitution and ( is strong ) not only physically, but spiritually,'' Frank Jordan said. ``And he told me on the phone that he was praying the whole time, so I believe that sustained him a great deal.''. Rescue swimmer Kyle McCollum was the first to care for Jordan on the flight back to land. ``You would expect sunburns, severe sunburn, blisters maybe.. a bunch of medical issues that could possibly be wrong with him,'' he said. ``But for him to be in his current state was pretty amazing.''. Grenz was also surprised by Jordan's condition, physically and mentally. The rescued sailor knew almost exactly what day it was, remarkable for someone who had been on the water for more than 60 days. Jordan was dehydrated and said he was hungry. ``We took him to a rescue boat,'' the container ship captain said. ``He was given water and pea soup to gain some power again.''. Derriel Morris, a neighbor at the Bucksport Plantation Marina & RV Resort called Jordan a nice guy who loved his 47-year-old boat, named ``Angel.''. Morris said : ``It was immaculate, it was gorgeous, beautifully painted. I mean it looked like a brand new sailboat.''. Morris told CNN affiliate WPDE that one day in January he was going to the store and Jordan asked him to bring back some coffee creamer. But when he returned to the marina, Jordan had slipped away. ``There was no shore line, no hose ; it was like he was never there,'' Morris told the station. After he disappeared others who also live there held a candlelight ceremony. The marina's manager, Jeff Weeks, told WPDE that Jordan is expected to be back at Buscksport next week. Tales of people who cheated death after days, weeks adrift.
( CNN ) Paul Walker is hardly the first actor to die during a production. But Walker's death in November 2013 at the age of 40 after a car crash was especially eerie given his rise to fame in the ``Fast and Furious'' film franchise. The release of ``Furious 7'' on Friday offers the opportunity for fans to remember -- and possibly grieve again -- the man that so many have praised as one of the nicest guys in Hollywood. ``He was a person of humility, integrity, and compassion,'' military veteran Kyle Upham said in an email to CNN. Walker secretly paid for the engagement ring Upham shopped for with his bride. ``We didn't know him personally but this was apparent in the short time we spent with him. I know that we will never forget him and he will always be someone very special to us,'' said Upham. The actor was on break from filming ``Furious 7'' at the time of the fiery accident, which also claimed the life of the car's driver, Roger Rodas. Producers said early on that they would not kill off Walker's character, Brian O'Connor, a former cop turned road racer. Instead, the script was rewritten and special effects were used to finish scenes, with Walker's brothers, Cody and Caleb, serving as body doubles. There are scenes that will resonate with the audience -- including the ending, in which the filmmakers figured out a touching way to pay tribute to Walker while ``retiring'' his character. At the premiere Wednesday night in Hollywood, Walker's co-star and close friend Vin Diesel gave a tearful speech before the screening, saying ``This movie is more than a movie.''. ``You'll feel it when you see it,'' Diesel said. ``There's something emotional that happens to you, where you walk out of this movie and you appreciate everyone you love because you just never know when the last day is you're gon na see them.''. There have been multiple tributes to Walker leading up to the release. Diesel revealed in an interview with the ``Today'' show that he had named his newborn daughter after Walker. Social media has also been paying homage to the late actor. A week after Walker's death, about 5,000 people attended an outdoor memorial to him in Los Angeles. Most had never met him. Marcus Coleman told CNN he spent almost $ 1,000 to truck in a banner from Bakersfield for people to sign at the memorial. ``It's like losing a friend or a really close family member.. even though he is an actor and we never really met face to face,'' Coleman said. ``Sitting there, bringing his movies into your house or watching on TV, it's like getting to know somebody. It really, really hurts.''. Walker's younger brother Cody told People magazine that he was initially nervous about how ``Furious 7'' would turn out, but he is happy with the film. ``It's bittersweet, but I think Paul would be proud,'' he said. CNN's Paul Vercammen contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The United States and its negotiating partners reached a very strong framework agreement with Iran in Lausanne, Switzerland, on Thursday that limits Iran's nuclear program in such a way as to effectively block it from building a nuclear weapon. Expect pushback anyway, if the recent past is any harbinger. Just last month, in an attempt to head off such an agreement, House Speaker John Boehner invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to preemptively blast it before Congress, and 47 senators sent a letter to the Iranian leadership warning them away from a deal. The debate that has already begun since the announcement of the new framework will likely result in more heat than light. It will not be helped by the gathering swirl of dubious assumptions and doubtful assertions. Let us address some of these :. The most misleading assertion, despite universal rejection by experts, is that the negotiations' objective at the outset was the total elimination of any nuclear program in Iran. That is the position of Netanyahu and his acolytes in the U.S. Congress. But that is not and never was the objective. If it had been, there would have been no Iranian team at the negotiating table. Rather, the objective has always been to structure an agreement or series of agreements so that Iran could not covertly develop a nuclear arsenal before the United States and its allies could respond. The new framework has exceeded expectations in achieving that goal. It would reduce Iran's low-enriched uranium stockpile, cut by two-thirds its number of installed centrifuges and implement a rigorous inspection regime. Another dubious assumption of opponents is that the Iranian nuclear program is a covert weapons program. Despite sharp accusations by some in the United States and its allies, Iran denies having such a program, and U.S. intelligence contends that Iran has not yet made the decision to build a nuclear weapon. Iran's continued cooperation with International Atomic Energy Agency inspections is further evidence on this point, and we'll know even more about Iran's program in the coming months and years because of the deal. In fact, the inspections provisions that are part of this agreement are designed to protect against any covert action by the Iranians. What's more, the rhetoric of some members of Congress has implied that the negotiations have been between only the United States and Iran ( i.e., the 47 senators' letter warning that a deal might be killed by Congress or a future president ). This of course is not the case. The talks were between Iran and the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council ( United States, United Kingdom, France, China and Russia ) plus Germany, dubbed the P5 +1. While the United States has played a leading role in the effort, it negotiated the terms alongside its partners. If the agreement reached by the P5 +1 is rejected by Congress, it could result in an unraveling of the sanctions on Iran and threaten NATO cohesion in other areas. Another questionable assertion is that this agreement contains a sunset clause, after which Iran will be free to do as it pleases. Again, this is not the case. Some of the restrictions on Iran's nuclear activities, such as uranium enrichment, will be eased or eliminated over time, as long as 15 years. But most importantly, the framework agreement includes Iran's ratification of the Additional Protocol, which allows IAEA inspectors expanded access to nuclear sites both declared and nondeclared. This provision will be permanent. It does not sunset. Thus, going forward, if Iran decides to enrich uranium to weapons-grade levels, monitors will be able to detect such a move in a matter of days and alert the U.N. Security Council. Many in Congress have said that the agreement should be a formal treaty requiring the Senate to ``advise and consent.'' But the issue is not suited for a treaty. Treaties impose equivalent obligations on all signatories. For example, the New START treaty limits Russia and the United States to 1,550 deployed strategic warheads. But any agreement with Iran will not be so balanced. The restrictions and obligations in the final framework agreement will be imposed almost exclusively on Iran. The P5 +1 are obligated only to ease and eventually remove most but not all economic sanctions, which were imposed as leverage to gain this final deal. Finally some insist that any agreement must address Iranian missile programs, human rights violations or support for Hamas or Hezbollah. As important as these issues are, and they must indeed be addressed, they are unrelated to the most important aim of a nuclear deal : preventing a nuclear Iran. To include them in the negotiations would be a poison pill. This agreement should be judged on its merits and on how it affects the security of our negotiating partners and allies, including Israel. Those judgments should be fact-based, not based on questionable assertions or dubious assumptions.
( CNN ) If you're famous and performing the American national anthem, be prepared to become a national hero or a national disgrace. Facts are facts. Just ask Vince, Whitney, Roseanne, Jimi and Michael. Mötley Crüe's Vince Neil reminded us again this week of the dangers of tackling ``The Star-Spangled Banner.''. Sure, he can shred it on ``Girls, Girls, Girls'' and ``Dr. Feelgood,'' but this is a different story -- a completely different story. To say Neil butchered the song before the Las Vegas Outlaws Arena Football League game would be unkind to those in the profession. There's less carnage when butchers are done with their work. The late Whitney Houston set the modern standard for the national anthem at Super Bowl XXV. In the early stages of the Gulf War in 1991, a patriotic America saluted her performance. Just six months earlier, comedian Roseanne Barr may have established the low-water mark. The crowd at the San Diego Padres game booed her rendition and President George H. W. Bush called it ``disgraceful.''. There's nothing quite like getting the presidential thumbs down. One of the most controversial and beloved versions of ``The Star-Spangled Banner'' comes from 1969. Guitar slinger Jimi Hendrix inflamed mainstream America with his psychedelic take on the national anthem to the delight of the Woodstock generation. And then there's Michael Bolton's version. Overly wrought songs are his specialty and he doesn't disappoint in that department when he sings at the American League Championship Series in 2003. Bolton belts it out, but there's one little problem -- the words. Can anyone say crib notes ?
London ( CNN ) A 19-year-old man was charged Wednesday with terror offenses after he was arrested as he returned to Britain from Turkey, London's Metropolitan Police said. Yahya Rashid, a UK national from northwest London, was detained at Luton airport on Tuesday after he arrived on a flight from Istanbul, police said. He's been charged with engaging in conduct in preparation of acts of terrorism, and with engaging in conduct with the intention of assisting others to commit acts of terrorism. Both charges relate to the period between November 1 and March 31. Rashid is due to appear in Westminster Magistrates' Court on Wednesday, police said. CNN's Lindsay Isaac contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Sky watchers in western North America are in for a treat : a nearly five-minute total lunar eclipse this morning. Here's how it's unfolding :. It started at 3:16 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time, when the moon began moving into Earth's shadow. For the next hour and 45 minutes, that shadow will move across the moon and engulf it at 4:58 a.m. Pacific Time. The total eclipse will only last four minutes and 43 seconds, and NASA says that makes it the shortest one of the century. Watch it live on NASA TV. While people west of the Mississippi River will have the best view, at least a partial eclipse will be visible across the nation. But sunrise will interrupt the show on the East Coast. Parts of South America, India, China and Russia also will be able to see the eclipse, but it won't be visible in Greenland, Iceland, Europe, Africa or the Middle East. A lunar eclipse happens when the sun, Earth and moon form a straight line in space, with the Earth smack in the middle. The sun shines on the Earth and creates a shadow. As the moon moves deeper into that shadow, it appears to turn dark and may even appear to be a reddish color. Why red ? Because Earth's atmosphere is filtering out most of the blue light. Some people have nicknamed the effect the ``blood moon.''. NASA says lunar eclipses typically happen at least twice a year, but this eclipse is the third in a series of four in a row, known as a ``tetrad.'' The first was on April 15, 2014. The second was in September 2014, the next is Saturday and there will be one more, on September 28. If you want to learn more about the eclipse, NASA astronomer Mitzi Adams will take questions on Twitter @NASA_Marshall. Did you see the total lunar eclipse ? Share your photos with CNN iReport.
( CNN ) Standing up for what you believe. What does it cost you ? What do you gain ?. Memories Pizza in the Indiana town of Walkerton is finding out. The family-run restaurant finds itself at the center of the debate over the state's Religious Freedom Restoration Act after its owners said they'd refuse to cater a same-sex couple's wedding. ``If a gay couple was to come and they wanted us to bring pizzas to their wedding, we'd have to say no,'' Crystal O'Connor told CNN affiliate WBND-TV in South Bend. The statement struck at the heart of fears by critics, who said the new law would allow businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians. They called for boycotts. But supporters also rallied. And by the end of the week, they had donated more than $ 842,000 for the business. Social media unloaded on the pizzeria in the community of 2,100 people that few folks outside northern Indiana knew existed before this week. RiskyLiberal tweeted : ``Dear #MemoriesPizza. No. My boycotting your business because I don't like your religious bigotry is not a violation of your freedom to practice your religion.''. ``Don't threaten #MemoriesPizza'' tweeted Aღanda. ``Just mock them for their ignorance.''. Bad reviews flooded the restaurant's Facebook page, most having little to do with the quality of the food. Many too vulgar to share. ``Do you really want to financially support a company that treats some of your fellow citizens like second class citizens ? BOYCOTT MEMORIES PIZZA !!'' said Rob Katz of Indianapolis. ``Let's hope they either rethink their policy or the free market puts them out of business.''. Anti-bigotry critics harass wrong pizzeria. But one outburst in particular shut down the restaurant Wednesday and was expected to do the same Thursday. ``Who's going to Walkerton with me to burn down Memories Pizza ?'' Jessica Dooley of Goshen tweeted, according to the Walkerton Police Department. The account has been deleted since the tweet was posted. Detectives who investigated have recommended charges of harassment, intimidation and threats, according to Charles Kulp, assistant police chief. The mood was a bit more subdued on the streets of Walkerton. A man stood outside Memories simply holding a sign that reads ``bigots.''. Jason Narducy bought $ 100 of pizza from another shop down the street and started handing it out, WBND reported. ``Do you want some non-discriminatory pizza ?'' Narducy asked. But for every tweet and Facebook post taking Memories Pizza to task were words of support and a groundswell of financial support. ``Because nothing says tolerance like threatening to kill Christians & burn down their businesses,'' said a tweet from Victor Nikki. ``What's happening to #MemoriesPizza isn't the free market, it's a lynch mob,'' tweeted Savannah. ``Cyber bulling isn't the same as taking your business elsewhere.''. Supporters rallied to a GoFundMe page in support of Memories Pizza. By the time the fundraiser ended late Friday, $ 842,387 had been raised. The purpose of the campaign is ``to relieve the financial loss endured by the proprietors' stand for faith,'' according to Lawrence Billy Jones II, the man who started it. For the O'Connors their stand was no pie in the sky dream. It wasn't calculated but was spurred by their beliefs, they told WBND. ``That's a lifestyle that you choose. I choose to be heterosexual. They choose to be homosexual,'' Kevin O'Connor told the TV station. ``You can't beat me over the head with something they choose to be.''. Faced with threats against business, they're still weighing the cost. CNN's Rob Frehse and Melanie Whitley contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It's the kind of thing you see in movies, like Robert Redford's role in ``All Is Lost'' or Ang Lee's ``Life of Pi.''. But, in real life, it's hard to swallow the idea of a single person being stranded at sea for days, weeks, if not months and somehow living to talk about it. Miracles do happen, though, and not just in Hollywood. We're not talking about people who float aimlessly or run aground after running out of gas or being let down by faltering winds only to be picked up a few hours later by the U.S. Coast Guard. Much rarer are cases in which individuals become lost at sea long enough that they run out of whatever food and drinking water they'd brought aboard, if any. In order to survive, they can't bank on technology or the proximity of a nearby city, town or boat -- but instead must rely on ingenuity, resourcefulness and luck. It's hard to say how many of these types of stories end sadly, with a sailor dying at sea, except that it is a much higher number than those that end in rescues. Such happy endings do occur -- given what rescue agencies have reported and assuming you believe what any sole survivor says, a big qualifier since typically no one else can prove or refute their accounts. Below are a few recent examples :. Louis Jordan says that he set off on his 35-foot sailboat from South Carolina in late January. He headed into the Gulf Stream looking for a good spot to catch fish. And then everything -- his boat, his life -- turned upside down. Rescued man says he is `utterly thankful'. Not only did his boat capsize, but its mast broke, Jordan said. And so, too, did his shoulder. He bought time by rationing water, then collecting fresh water in a bucket. As to food, Jordan says he used laundry to trap and scoop up fish. And he rigged a makeshift mast and sail. But, Jordan said, ``It took so long. It moved so slowly.''. His sailboat would capsize two more times before crew members on a German-flagged container ship, the Houston Express, spotted Jordan about 200 miles off the North Carolina coast on Thursday. After their reunion, his father greeted him with a hug and an admission every parent dreads. ``I thought I lost you.''. Jose Salvador Alvarenga says his journey began in Paredon Viejo, a port on Mexico's Pacific coast, in late 2012. The exact date is up for debate -- he says he set off in December, locals say it was November. But what's not in doubt is that, after he left, he disappeared. Until January 2013. That's when Alvarenga interacted with humans once again, thousands of miles away on a remote atoll in the Marshall Islands. Castaway recounts how he survived over a year adrift in Pacific. What was supposed to be a one-day trip, he says, turned into an arduous odyssey across the Pacific Ocean, one that saw him lose his fishing companion and tested his will and ability to survive. His nightmare began when winds blew the pair off course. Then a storm hit causing their boat, which was about three people long and one wide, to lose its engine and use of its radio communication and GPS systems. Four weeks in, Alvarenga said his partner -- 23-year-old Ezequiel Cordova, according to the boat's owner -- died because he refused to eat raw birds. The days, weeks and months ran together after that. Alvarenga says he drank rainwater and, when there wasn't any available, his own urine. He ate sea turtles. Then, after 13 or 14 months adrift, he and his small, heavily damaged boat arrived on the Ebon Atoll, about a 22-hour boat ride from the Marshall Islands capital of Majuro. The atoll has one phone line, no Internet service and a few residents, two of whom Alvarenga spotted and shouted to after spending a night in the woods. The El Salvador native told CNN that his faith in God helped him survive. ``I thought,' I am going to get out,'' he said. ``Get out, get out, get out.''. Some in their late 60s might relax in their retirement, reining it in a few notches as life slows down. And if you live in Hawaii, there's even more reason to take it easy. The thing is : Ron Ingraham isn't one of those people. He's a fisherman. The sea is both his life and livelihood, his son, Zakary, told CNN. And he's tough, with his son jokingly comparing him to Rambo. Still, even the hardiest fishermen would have been tested by what Ron Ingraham went through after setting off around last Thanksgiving solo from the Hawaiian island of Molokai. Son vindicated as father rescued after 12 days at sea. After bad weather hit, Ron Ingraham told CNN affiliate KHNL/KGMB that his 25-foot sailboat went ``backwards all night long.'' At one point, a huge wave struck -- pushing his mast into the water and him as well. The 67-year-old used a rope to pull himself back in. But his boat couldn't be rescued so easily, leaving him at the mercy of the current. A distress call went out, prompting a search that would cover 12,000 square miles. When a Coast Guard official told him the search was being called off December 1, Zakary Ingraham responded, ``I don't feel like he's dead. I don't feel it.''. He was right. Twelve days after that first distress call, Ron Ingraham was picked up about 64 miles ( 103 kilometers ) south of Honolulu ``weak, hungry and dehydrated'' and -- most importantly -- alive. The veteran fisherman headed back to shore only after getting assurances his damaged boat would come with him. In February 2012, two friends asked 18-year-old Adrian Vasquez whether he wanted to tag along on an overnight fishing expedition. He said yes, and the three set off from the Panama town of San Carlos on a small boat, Vasquez's mother, Nilsa de la Cruz, recalled. Things started out well, by all accounts. The three caught plenty of fish. Then, their boat's engine died without warning. And, with no tools and scant navigational experience, the trio didn't know what to do, according to Vasquez's mother. Mother calls Panama teen's return' a miracle'. Vazquez ate raw fish and drank rainwater as currents swept his boat, the Fifty Cents, further and further from the coast and into the Pacific Ocean. Somewhere along the way, his two companions died. It's not clear exactly how, with Ecuadorian Rear. Adm. Freddy Garcia Calle saying Vasquez threw their bodies into the sea ``because they had become badly decomposed.''. Some 26 days after and nearly 600 miles away from where the journey began, fishermen spotted the tiny vessel north of the Galapagos Islands. The Ecuadorian navy came in and picked up the teenage survivor, who'd lost 20 pounds and showed ``severe signs of dehydration and lack of nutrition,'' according to Calle. He returned home to loved ones eager to embrace him, but mindful of giving him time to process the ordeal. ``For us, this is an opportunity to get closer as a family,'' his mother said by phone, ``to be more understanding and loving.''. Sometimes one doesn't have to be in the ocean for weeks to have his or her life imperiled. Sometimes people don't have to set off by boat to have the sea challenge them to the end. For proof, look no further than Hiromitsu Shinkawa. 60-year-old man waves red flag to alert rescuers. He was at home on March 11, 2011, when a massive 9.0 magnitude earthquake struck 231 miles northeast of Tokyo. A devastating tsunami followed, its 30-foot waves ravaging cities and towns and damaging several nuclear reactors. By the time it had run the course, nearly 16,000 people were dead. It's a miracle Shinkawa wasn't one of them. Shortly after the quake, he and his wife had gone to collect some belongings when the tsunami slammed their hometown of Minamisoma. His home was one of the tens of thousands destroyed by the the huge, powerful tsunami wave. ``I was saved by holding onto the roof,'' the 60-year-old said, according to Kyodo News Agency. ``But my wife was swept away.'. More than two days later, video showed Shinkawa barely visible amid heaps of splintered wood, shattered homes and other debris floating more than nine miles ( 15 kilometers ) out to sea. He was waving a self-made red flag. After being spotted by crew aboard a Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force destroyer and picked up in a smaller rescue boat, he took a drink offered to him and burst into tears, Kyodo reported. Shinkawa told his rescuers, ``I thought today was the last day of my life.''
( CNN ) Since Iran's Islamic Revolution in 1979, women have been barred from attending most sports events involving men. But the situation appears set to improve in the coming months after a top Iranian sports official said that the ban will be lifted for some events. A plan to allow ``women and families'' to enter sports stadiums will come into effect in the next year, Deputy Sports Minister Abdolhamid Ahmadi said Saturday, according to state-run media. But it isn't clear exactly which games women will be able to attend. According to the state-run Press TV, Ahmadi said the restrictions would be lifted for indoor sports events. The rules won't change for all matches because some sports are mainly related to men and ``families are not interested in attending'' them, Press TV cited him as saying. Iranian authorities imposed the ban on women attending men's sports events after the revolution, deeming that mixed crowds watching games together was un-Islamic. During the ensuing decades, the crowds at soccer games, Iran's most popular sport, have been all male. Iranian women were briefly permitted to attend volleyball matches under the moderate President Mohammad Khatami, but the ban was reinstated in 2005 after the more hard-line Mahmoud Ahmadinejad came to power. The Iranian government has come under pressure from international sports officials over the restrictions. FIFA President Sepp Blatter called on Iran last month to end its ``intolerable'' ban on women attending soccer matches, saying the situation ``can not continue.''. Iran had been in the running to host the 2019 edition of soccer's Asian Cup, but the tournament was awarded to the United Arab Emirates. The ban on women attending matches was widely seen as a major impediment to Iran's chances of securing the event. The ban came under the spotlight at the Asian Cup in Australia earlier this year, when thousands of female Iranian fans watched their soccer team without restriction. During the match against Iraq, activists called for the ban to end and unfurled a banner showing the face of Ghoncheh Ghavami, a British-Iranian woman detained in Iran last year while trying to watch a volleyball match. Iranian officials have denied that Ghavami was arrested for attending the volleyball game, saying she was taken into custody for ``anti-Iran activities.'' The news agency Reuters reported that she was recently pardoned by the Court of Appeal. CNN's Annie Ramos contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu criticized the deal six world powers struck to thwart Iran's nuclear ambitions, saying he sees better options than ``this bad deal or war.''. ``I think there's a third alternative, and that is standing firm, ratcheting up the pressure until you get a better deal,'' Netanyahu told CNN's Jim Acosta Sunday on ``State of the Union.''. His comments come as Democrats and Republicans spar over the framework announced last week to lift Western sanctions on Iran in exchange for the country dropping from 19,000 to 5,060 active centrifuges, limiting its highly enriched uranium, and increasing inspections. President Barack Obama endorsed the deal, saying it was better than the alternatives. But GOP contenders for the party's 2016 presidential nomination lambasted it, saying it gave Iran too much flexibility. On Sunday, the sparring continued. One Senate Democrat said Netanyahu needs to ``contain himself.'' And a top Republican said almost any of Obama's successors as president ``could do better.''. Netanyahu's most recent argument against the Iran nuclear deal was similar to the one he'd made in a March trip to Washington, when he addressed a joint session of Congress -- fueling a Republican push to have the deal sent to Congress before it's implemented. ``It does not roll back Iran's nuclear program. It keeps a vast nuclear infrastructure in place. Not a single centrifuge is destroyed. Not a single nuclear facility is shut down, including the underground facilities that they built illicitly. Thousands of centrifuges will keep spinning, enriching uranium,'' Netanyahu said Sunday. ``That's a very bad deal.''. Netanyahu said Iran is a country of ``congenital cheating'' and that it can't be trusted to abide by the terms of the deal, which lasts 10 years with some provisions extending well beyond that. He said his opposition has little to do with his frosty relationship with Obama. ``I think that we can have a legitimate difference of opinion on this, because I think Iran has shown to be completely distrustful,'' Netanyahu said. Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, meanwhile, said she wishes Netanyahu ``would contain himself.''. The top-ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee said negotiators working on the deal -- from Iran and the United States, as well as Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany -- are ``on the cusp of something that can be workable.''. ``It's a framework. It has to be wrapped into a final agreement. There still can be some changes,'' Feinstein said. ``But I don't think it's helpful for Israel to come out and oppose this one opportunity to change a major dynamic -- which is downhill, a downhill dynamic in this part of the world.''. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz defended the deal in an appearance on CBS' ``Face the Nation'' on Sunday, saying it would extend from two months to one year the ``breakout'' time period -- the length of time it would take Iran to build a nuclear bomb. He said it also allows for the ``almost instantaneous recognition of any attempt to evade the deal.''. ``We have blocked all of these pathways to a bomb,'' he said. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, said on ``Face the Nation'' that the best option for the United States is to keep current sanctions in place for two more years and then have a ``new crack at it with a new president that doesn't have the baggage of Obama.''. And he said the alternatives to Obama on both sides -- with the exception of Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, who's called for a less active U.S. role overseas -- would likely strike a better deal. ``Hillary Clinton would do better. I think everybody on our side, except, maybe, Rand Paul, could do better,'' Graham said.
( CNN ) A trip to a former heavyweight champ's gaudy, abandoned mansion. The tallest and fastest ``giga-coaster'' in the world. A dramatic interview with a famed spiritual leader -- and the tearful reaction by one of his former students. These are some of the best videos of the week :. In the 1980s and'90s -- before he moved to Vegas and started keeping tigers as pets -- former heavyweight boxer Mike Tyson lived in a Southington, Ohio, mansion. The home featured an indoor swimming pool, a marble-and-gold Jacuzzi ( with mirrored ceiling, naturally ) and an entertainment room large enough for small concerts. Tyson sold the house in 1999 ; it's due to become, of all things, a church. The video can be seen at the top of this story. Not a fan of roller coasters ? You may want to skip the next video -- but for the rest of us, the thrill of watching is the next best thing to being there. The Fury 325 can be found at Carowinds amusement part in Charlotte, North Carolina. Watch the video :. In a CNN exclusive, Alisyn Camerota looked into allegations that Bikram yoga creator Bikram Choudhury sexually assaulted six former students. ``He's a person who's based a lot of truths on a lot of lies,'' said Sarah Baughn, who alleges that Choudhury sexually assaulted her. Watch the video :. CNN's Karl Penhaul spoke to a shepherd who witnessed the final seconds of Germanwings Flight 9525, which crashed in the French Alps last week. ``I saw the plane heading down along the valley and I said, `My God, it's going to hit the mountain,''' Jean Varrieras told Penhaul. ``I ducked my head.. Then after that, I saw the smoke.''. Watch the video :. Magician and comedian Penn Jillette was part of a panel speaking to CNN's Don Lemon about the controversial Indiana religious freedom law. Jillette, an avowed atheist and libertarian, noted ``we are not talking about forcing people to engage in gay sex, or even endorse gay sex.'' His provocative opening led to an energetic back-and-forth with the Alliance Defending Freedom's Kristen Waggoner and the ACLU's Rita Sklar. Watch the video :. A professor of physics at a British university asked 100 people to create a composite with facial features they thought were beautiful -- and then asked another 100 to rate their attractiveness. You'll never guess what celebrities best fit the model. Watch the video :.
( CNN ) Easter is a cornerstone event in the Christian faith, but it's surrounded by interesting quirks. It celebrates the completion of Christ's mission of salvation in the Crucifixion and Resurrection. By dying on Good Friday, Christ atoned for the sins of others ; by rising from the grave on Sunday, Christ conquered death. Simple enough and reason for Christians to celebrate. But, like Christmas with its tree, ornaments and Santa Claus, Easter has picked up its peripheral trappings -- the bunny and colorful eggs. Unlike Christmas, it doesn't fall on the same day every year but shifts around in spring depending upon cosmic events. And that blood moon we just had -- is it pure coincidence that it fell around Easter ? ( No. ). Here's a journey from the Vatican to the Holy Land, around the moon and the Earth's tilting axis, to Germany and the United States to try to explain the complex holiday called Easter. And you'll learn to how to color Easter eggs with Kool-Aid. Let's start at the Vatican. At the Vatican, Holy Week began with Palm Sunday last week and culminated in Easter Sunday Mass with multiple celebrations in between to mark the final week of Christ's mortal life. Jesus rode on the back of a donkey into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday where crowds celebrated him as the Messiah and laid down palm branches in his path. But the crowd and the Romans turned on him in the course of the week, according to the Bible, leading to his crucifixion and resurrection. Rain sprinkled down on worshipers standing under a sea of umbrellas as they gathered in a gray St. Peter's Square on Sunday to partake in the outdoor services held by Pope Francis. Afterward, the Pontiff took a moment to tell the world to do right those in need in his Urbi et Orbi address. Francis lamented the suffering of people in many of the conflicts around the globe. From Nigeria to South Sudan, Iraq to Ukraine, he expressed hope that violence would end. Francis also doesn't put on airs. This week he washed the feet of believers, repeating the Biblical account of a woman, a sinner, washing Jesus' feet and anointing them with oil. Let's move on to old Jerusalem, the birthplace of Easter. The Church of the Holy Sepulcher in old Jerusalem unifies the spot where Christ was crucified -- Calvary -- with his tomb, or sepulcher. On Sunday, Catholics and Armenian Christians celebrated the Resurrection there. In the morning, the Latin Patriarch, the Archbishop of Jerusalem, entered the basilica. Then mass was held followed by a procession. But a large group of indigenous Christians didn't join them. It's not quite Easter yet in the Holy Land for Eastern Orthodox Christians. They'll be celebrating a week from now, because they determine Easter's date by a different calendar than Western Christians -- the Julian calendar. Which brings us to the question of how astronomy is used to determine the date of Easter Sunday. A blood moon appeared in the sky early Saturday, right between Good Friday and Easter Sunday and during Passover. Just a coincidence ?. Not completely, because the dates for both Passover -- the Jewish holiday celebrating the deliverance from slavery in Egypt -- and Easter are determined by moon phases, according to timeanddate.com. Easter's timing is related to Passover, because Jesus was crucified around then, according to the Bible. Many Jewish holidays, including Passover, fall on full moon, which is also a prerequisite for a lunar eclipse, the event that turns the moon a blood red color. Since the timing of moon phases doesn't jibe with Earth's orbit -- which is how we determine the length of a year now -- Passover's exact date moves around -- and so does Easter's. When Christian bishops first convened at the Council of Nicaea in the year 325, they made a rule to determine the date of Easter, so as to fairly reliably pin it to Passover :. It would fall on the first Sunday after the first full moon following the vernal equinox. That's the day in March when Earth's axis reaches a midpoint between winter and summer and the day and night are of equal length. But.. if the full moon fell on Sunday, Easter would be pushed down a week. Confusing ? It got worse. When the West moved from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian calendar, Orthodox Christians stayed put, resulting in -- usually -- two separate dates for Easter. In 1997, the World Council of Churches pushed for a unified method of determining a date based on astronomical occurrences. It didn't catch on. But some odd Easter trappings that popped up after the Middle Ages very much have -- the eggs and the bunny. The bunny is an egg-laying pagan that worships the moon. That's one notion of its origins, but probably not the actual one. German immigrants appear to have brought it to North America in the 1700s. German historians are not clear on its beginnings, but the first known mention of the bunny and the eggs in writing was in 1682. Professor of medicine Georg Franck von Frankenau described in his paper ``De ovis paschalibus,'' or ``On Easter eggs,'' a custom in the Alsace region involving a bunny and eggs, according to German public television. Some also credit the region with inadvertently inventing the Christmas tree. But von Frankenau left out any explanation of how the tradition arose, leading to a number of theories in Germany. One common idea : During Lent, people had to abstain from eating eggs, but hens kept on laying them, so farmers boiled and preserved them. By the time Easter rolled around, they were practically swimming in them. They had to figure out something to do with them when the holiday hit. Play hide and seek with them ; color them ; give them as gifts. Parents may have invented the bunny as a playful explanation for children on where the Easter eggs came from. If you're coloring eggs this year, here's an interesting tip. Instead of stinking up your place with the smell of vinegar, use Kool-Aid, YouTube science geek Grant Thompson suggests. And it appears to work. Just use a whole packet in a small glass of hot water and gently lay the eggs in. They turn out as bright as they would in any other food dye. But be careful, it stains everything else, like clothes and upholstery, Thompson warns. That's why your tongue changes colors when you drink it. Happy Easter ! Happy Passover !
( CNN ) Police in the Indian city of Malegaon, in the western state of Maharashtra, are requiring identity cards for an unusual group of residents : Cattle. Following a recent state-wide ban on the sale and consumption of beef, authorities in the city have asked residents to take a `mugshot' of their cattle and submit it to the police. Along with the photograph, the residents have to give information about their animal's `unique features,' such as the coloring and age of the cow, along with the length of its tail and other distinctive characteristics. Police officials believe this is the only way to solve cow slaughter cases and enforce the law. Cows are considered holy and revered by that state's majority Hindu population. ``We are creating a database. If we get an information of a cow slaughter, we can quickly go to the resident's place and check whether it is there or not'', Mahesh Sawai, Deputy Superintendent of Malegaon Police told CNN. ``I believe this will be very effective''. So far over 100 owners have complied with the police order and more are lining up outside police stations across the city to get their livestock photographed. The ruling came in the wake of a recent case of cow slaughter in Malegaon, where two men have been charged for killing the animal and and selling its meat. The Maharashtra Animal Preservation Bill now includes bans on the killing of bulls and bullocks in its list of non-bailable offenses. Even the consumption or sale of beef could now land you in prison for five years. The slaughter of buffaloes, however, is still permissible. However, beef traders in the country strongly reacted to the decision and called a month-long strike, which ended Wednesday. The traders refused to even slaughter buffaloes and deprive the state of all bovine meat. They have now vowed to file a case in the state's high court. Red meat lovers weren't too delighted either, arguing the government doesn't have a right to interfere in an individual's personal preference. Maharashtra is not the only Indian state to tighten its laws on cow slaughter. Haryana state has implemented a maximum punishment of 10 years in prison, the toughest penalty in the country. Rajnath Singh, India's Home Minister has promised that he would do all to devise a country-wide law against cow slaughter.
( CNN ) The FBI charged a Philadelphia woman on Thursday with trying to travel overseas to fight for ISIS. She's one of three women arrested this week on terror charges. Two New York women were also taken into custody. An FBI complaint cites numerous social media messages dating back to August 2013 that were sent by Keonna Thomas, 30, also known as ``Young Lioness'' and ``Fatayat Al Khilafah.''. One Twitter message said, ``If we truly knew the realities.. we all would be rushing to join our brothers in the front lines pray ALLAH accept us as shuhada -LSB- martyrs -RSB-.''. Another said, ``When you're a mujahid -LSB- violent jihadi fighter -RSB- your death becomes a wedding.''. The FBI said Thomas purchased an electronic visa to Turkey on March 23. Turkey is known as the easiest place from which to enter Syria and join ISIS. An ISIS manual advises recruits to buy round-trip tickets to vacation spots such as Spain and then purchase tickets for their real destination once they arrive overseas, the FBI said. On March 26, Thomas purchased a ticket to Barcelona, with a March 29 departure and an April 15 return to the United States, the complaint said. It's not clear when or where she was arrested. She was charged with knowingly attempting to provide material support and resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. She could be sentenced to 15 years in prison. On Thursday, Noelle Velentzas, 28, and her former roommate, Asia Siddiqui, 31, were arrested in New York and accused of planning to build an explosive device for attacks in the United States, federal prosecutors said. In the past 18 months, the Justice Department's National Security Division has prosecuted or is prosecuting more than 30 cases of people attempting to travel abroad to join or provide support to terrorist groups. Of those cases, 18 allegedly involve support to ISIS. ``The terrorist threat is more decentralized, more diffuse, more complicated,'' Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson told reporters Thursday. ``It involves the potential lone wolf actor, it involves the effective use of social media, the Internet.''
( CNN ) Just as mimeograph machines and photocopiers were in their day, online activity -- blogs, YouTube channels, even social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter -- have fully emerged as the alternative to traditional mainstream media. It is not just the low cost of posting online that attracts dissidence, though that in itself is liberating. It is the lack of access to traditional print and broadcast media in authoritarian countries that is really the driving force leading disaffected voices to post online. It is not unique to Asia, but it might seem more pronounced if you live there. Going online has become the path of least resistance if you want to make yourself heard. But it still brings resistance, some of it legal, some of it deadly. Let's look at the legal angle first. Amos Yee, the teenage video blogger who was arrested and held pending bail Sunday in Singapore, drew international attention for his anti-Lee Kuan Yew harangue. But jailing critics is not usually the government's first choice in Singapore. It is part of Lee Kuan Yew's legacy that the government's use of the courts to bring libel and defamation cases, usually carrying heavy financial penalties, is the preferred method of silencing discomfiting online voices. His father has reportedly apologized for his son's behavior, but the younger Yee could face up to three years in jail. Yee is not unique. Another dissident blogger in Singapore, Roy Ngerng, continues to suffer financial and legal pressure, including the loss of his job, because of a blog post that allegedly accused the city-state's Prime Minister, Lee Hsien Loong, of corruption. Ngerng's concern is with the lack of transparency in the management of the Central Provident Fund, the government's compulsory pension program. Yee and Ngerng are two of many. The Committee To Protect Journalists' file on Singapore going back to 2000 has a long string of similar cases, some against politicians, others against citizens simply frustrated with their government. But it is not just Singapore where Internet activity comes under fire : On Monday in Malaysia, with much less of the international attention heaped on Amos Yee, five editors and executives from The Malaysian Insider were arrested over the site's March 25 report claiming that a senior council of royal rulers and state governors, known as the Conference of Rulers, had rejected a proposal to amend federal law to allow for the introduction of hudud, or punishments meted out under Islamic law. In deeply Muslim Malaysia, questions of Islamic faith are a third-rail issue, as is revealing government decisions before they are announced. By far the biggest jailer of journalists in the world is China, where a majority of the 44 people behind bars at the end of 2014 were bloggers, most of them Uighur or Tibetan activists who straddle the line between journalism and activism. But in second place in Asia is Vietnam, where CPJ's most recent prison census showed Vietnam holding 16 reporters behind bars as of December 1. Add one more in late December, Nguyen Dinh Ngoc, a prominent blogger who was arrested for ``law-violating'' after police searched his home in southern Ho Chi Minh City on December 27, and two more in January, Nguyen Quang Lap and Hong Le Tho, arrested on anti-state charges of ``abusing democratic freedoms'' and you can see the pattern. Because the print and broadcast media are so totally government controlled, mainstream journalists seldom go to jail any more in Vietnam. Only two investigative print reporters remain behind bars in Vietnam, their cases dating back to 2012 and 2013. Both were accused of accepting bribes for dialing back critical news coverage. The list could go on, but the reality is that, as CPJ wrote in 2013, across Asia ``governments have curtailed Internet freedoms through increasingly restrictive practices, including prohibitive laws, heightened surveillance and censorship, and threats of imprisonment on various national security-related offenses.'' That is still the policy path being followed by most countries in Asia, and it does not look like it will be changing any time soon. Jailing journalists is one thing, but watching them being killed and doing little or nothing about it is another. Since 1992, 11 % of journalists killed have died for their work online. Because our 1992 start date really precedes the full advent of the Internet, that proportion can be expected to grow. While most bloggers have not been the targets of murderers, Bangladesh has recently become the exception. On Monday, Washiqur Rahman Babu was the second blogger to be hacked to death in public in Bangladesh in the past five weeks. Blogger Avijit Roy and his wife, Rafida Ahmed Bonna, were attacked by assailants wielding sharp weapons while the couple was visiting Dhaka. Roy, a U.S. citizen of Bangladeshi origin, was killed and his wife was critically injured. Both Rahman and Roy had written critically on Islamic matters. The blogger death toll gets higher in Bangladesh if you go back a year or two, and religious beliefs are always involved, and the killings almost always carried out with near perfect impunity. In January 2013, blogger Asif Mohiuddin, who wrote critical commentary on religion, Islamist groups, free speech, and human rights, barely survived after he was stabbed by Islamists. In February 2013, blogger Ahmed Rajib Haider, who had written about Islamic fundamentalism and Islamist groups, was hacked to death by members of an Islamist militant group, according to police investigations. Later in 2013, Islamist groups called for the execution of bloggers they said had committed blasphemy. While arrests were made after those murders, there have been no convictions. The bottom line : Online journalists, operating outside the restraints of mainstream media, have become the most vulnerable targets for governments and independent actors. Where there is the restrictive rule of law, journalists are vulnerable to the anger of officialdom. Where the rule of law is weak, they are vulnerable to the attacks of killers who seldom, if ever, answer to the rule of law.
Atlanta ( CNN ) Robert Lewis Burns Jr., the original drummer in Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd, died Friday night in a car crash, a Georgia State Patrol spokesman said. Burns, 64, died after his car hit a mailbox and a tree in Cartersville, spokesman James Tallent said. No other cars were involved in the crash, which occurred shortly before midnight. ``He was not restrained at the time of the crash,'' Tallent told CNN. The musician lived in northern Georgia. Burns was part of the genre-defining band's original lineup, which formed in Jacksonville, Florida, in 1965. Lead singer Ronnie Van Zant started Noble Five with Burns, guitarists Gary Rossington and Allen Collins and bassist Larry Junstrom in their hometown. It then made a name change in a reference to a high school gym teacher. Lynyrd Skynyrd changed members over the years as it produced rock anthems including ``Sweet Home Alabama'' and ``Freebird.'' Burns left the band before its third studio album, ``Nuthin Fancy,'' in 1975, ``exhausted by touring,'' according to the band's Rock and Roll Hall of Fame biography. He was not involved in the 1977 plane crash that killed three members, including Van Zant. The band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2006. Lynyrd Skynyrd still tours with Rossington, the only original member still in the band. ``Today I'm at a loss for words but I just remember Bob being a funny guy,'' Rossington said on the band's official Facebook page. ``My heart goes out to his family and God bless him and them in this sad time. He was a great great drummer.''. People we've lost in 2015.
( CNN ) When singer Avril Lavigne went missing from the music scene, there was tons of speculation. Was she pregnant ? In rehab ? Going through a split from her husband, Nickelback front man Chad Kroeger ?. Focus on the mystery intensified in December after a fan Twitter account posted a direct message from Lavigne when she solicited prayers, saying she was ``having some health issues.''. Now the Canadian singer has revealed to People magazine that she was bedridden for five months after contracting Lyme disease. ``I felt like I couldn't breathe, I couldn't talk, and I couldn't move,'' she told the magazine. ``I thought I was dying.''. Lyme disease : What you should know. Lavigne believes that she was bitten by a tick last spring. What followed was months of lightheadedness and lethargy that doctors were initially unable to diagnose. The 30-year-old performer said she recuperated in her Ontario home, where her husband would use tour breaks to care for her and her mother moved in to assist. ``There were definitely times I couldn't shower for a full week because I could barely stand,'' she told People. ``It felt like having all your life sucked out of you.''. Opinion : Why you should be afraid of Lyme disease. After her direct message about her health went viral, Lavigne was inundated with concern from fans. ``The get-well messages and videos they sent touched me so deeply,'' she said. Now declaring herself ``80 percent better,'' Lavigne is releasing a new single this month to support the 2015 Special Olympics and says that being ill was a ``wake-up call'' that has given her a new perspective. ``I really just want to enjoy life from here on out,'' she said.
Atlanta ( CNN ) It was a scene worthy of any top cop show on TV -- bullets flying, banged-up cars and the FBI chasing an armed robbery suspect. In the end, two agents were injured in a crash and the suspect was shot before being captured. FBI agents and task force officers were following 36-year-old Kevone Charleston of Austell, Georgia, as he pulled into a CVS pharmacy in Forsyth County, Georgia, early Saturday. Charleston is suspected of involvement in 32 commercial robberies dating to November 2013, according to FBI officials. ``The incident all happened around 7 o'clock Saturday morning,'' said FBI Special Agent Stephen Emmett. ``There were multiple agents and officers that were following him based on his prior MO, and when they saw he was about to rob another CVS, they moved in.''. Authorities say Charleston parked his vehicle nearby and then popped the hood as if there were something wrong. Then he walked to the CVS, preparing to enter. When agents confronted him, Charleston ran, got in his car and traveled about 75 yards as agents opened fire. ``There were several FBI vehicles that were rammed or were hit by the suspect's vehicle when he was trying to flee. One government vehicle sustained heavy damage to its front and side, and another government SUV ended up on its side. That's how the two agents sustained their injuries,'' Emmett said. Twelve FBI agents and six government vehicles followed Charleston. Emmett said Charleston ``was trying to get away, our agents were trying to stop him. He collided with the first government vehicle, the Taurus, then the second, and the SUV ended on its side. ``The perp was stopped 8 feet away in the median, and that's where he received his gunshot wounds.''. The two agents were treated at an area hospital and released, according to Emmett, who says ``they are fine.''. Charleston was shot and wounded by FBI agents and task force officers, but his injuries are not life threatening, according to Forsyth County Sheriff's Deputy Robin Regan. Although he declined to give details of the 32 previous robberies, Emmett said it was an intensive investigation that was already underway as a priority for the FBI's violent crimes and major offender squad. He added, ``His MO involved armed confrontations, so our officers went into this fully prepared for an armed confrontation based on his past history.''. Emmett says he's relieved that the FBI's officers and agents are OK and that the suspect is in custody. He said it was the ``conclusion of an intensive and lengthy investigation.''. CNN's Vivian Kuo and Ryan Scallan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) After years of making the case that the education of athletes is paramount, the NCAA now says it has no legal responsibility to make sure education is actually delivered. On its website, the NCAA prominently states, ``It's our commitment -- and our responsibility -- to give young people opportunities to learn, play and succeed.'' And later, it says that ``in the collegiate model of sports, the young men and women competing on the field or court are students first, athletes second.''. But the NCAA is taking a very different position in response to a lawsuit filed by former University of North Carolina athletes. The lawsuit claimed the students didn't get an education because they were caught up in the largest known academic fraud scandal in NCAA history. In its response, the NCAA says it has no legal responsibility ``to ensure the academic integrity of the courses offered to student-athletes at its member institutions.''. Even with pages of online information about academic standards, and even though the NCAA has established a system of academic eligibility and accountability that it boasts of regularly, NCAA attorneys wrote in this court filing that ``the NCAA did not assume a duty to ensure the quality of the education of student-athletes,'' and ``the NCAA does not have `direct, day-to-day, operational control''' over member institutions like UNC. ``It's nonsense. It's double talk,'' said Gerald Gurney, a former athletic-academic director who is now president of The Drake Group for academic integrity in collegiate sport. ``If you look at their basic core principles, it's all about academics, the experience, the integration of academics, and the education of the student is paramount,'' Gurney said. ``They seem to talk out of both sides of their mouths.''. The NCAA referred calls for comment to an online statement, which read in part :. The NCAA believes that the lawsuit misunderstands the NCAA's role with respect to its member schools and ignores the myriad steps the NCAA has taken to assist student-athletes in being equipped to excel both in the classroom and on the playing field. ``This case is troubling for a number of reasons, not the least of which is that the law does not and has never required the NCAA to ensure that every student-athlete is actually taking full advantage of the academic and athletic opportunities provided to them,'' said Donald Remy, NCAA chief legal officer. In its response to the lawsuit, it also likened its role to that of the American Bar Association or American Medical Association, and said that those entities are not sued every time a lawyer or doctor acts inappropriately. The scandal at UNC involved thousands of athletes who, over 18 years, were funneled into classes that never met, where advisers fudged grades and accepted plagiarism so that athletes who were falling behind in class could remain eligible to play sports. Mary Willingham, the UNC whistleblower turned NCAA critic, has for years said that athletes across the country are accepted to colleges even though they're academically underprepared and then pushed into classes where little work is required. The system of eligibility that the NCAA brags about, she says, is a sham. ``Why do we go through the trouble of compliance if we can't legitimize that the courses are real and the education is real anyway ? It makes no sense,'' said Willingham, who recently wrote a book about the UNC scandal called ``Cheated.'' ``If they can't legitimize that the academics are real and take no responsibility for that, then why certify students semester after semester to play ? It's lost its meaning for me.''. The NCAA's claim that it's hands-off when it comes to athletics seems to be a direct contradiction of what the organization has been repeating for years, not just in the rhetoric on its website, but in speeches by its president, Mark Emmert, and in court defending itself from numerous lawsuits over paying athletes. For example, before it lost a case filed by former UCLA player Ed O'Bannon, suing for the right of athletes to make money off their images and likenesses, the NCAA stood on the pillar of amateurism, insisting that college athletes are paid with an education. That's the defense the NCAA is now using in another class action filed by big-time sports attorney Jeffrey Kessler, seeking to make college sports a free market where athletes are paid salaries based on their value. In response, the NCAA said that what sets college sports apart from pros is education : Consistent with ``its commitment to amateurism, member institutions conduct their athletics programs for students who choose to participate in intercollegiate athletics as a part of their educational experience and in accordance with NCAA bylaws.''. Attorney Michael Hausfeld, who represented both O'Bannon and now the UNC athletes, said this :. ``This startling inconsistency is unfortunately all too symptomatic of the NCAA's shifting rhetoric and faltering commitment to its college athletes. NCAA President Mark Emmert has repeatedly proposed that `What we live for is the education of our athletes,' but the NCAA's record tells a far different story.''. But Rick Burton, professor of sport management at Syracuse University, said it's not realistic to think that the NCAA would regulate every professor and every course an athlete might take at each university across the country. ``I understand, I think, where the NCAA is coming from. We would not let the NCAA come in and tell us how to run our chemistry department at Syracuse University,'' he said. ``It sounds like someone is trying to say the NCAA should have been supervising that department at the University of North Carolina, and there's no logic to that,'' he said. ``The people who are saying the NCAA should be held accountable for academics at every school are just looking for an opportunity to throw rocks at the NCAA.''. UNC, which was also sued, has admitted to the fraud, but also asked for a judge to throw out the case, saying the athletes waited too long -- seven years -- to sue and the ``educational malpractice'' theory doesn't apply. UNC claims it is protected by state law. This is reminiscent of another NCAA reversal. The NCAA, which was founded a century ago to protect athletes from ``dangerous and exploitive athletic practices,'' now says it does not enforce health and safety rules. In fact, in response to a lawsuit filed by the family of a player who died in 2011, the NCAA wrote : ``The NCAA denies that it has a legal duty to protect student-athletes.''. A CNN investigation found that the NCAA has failed to open investigations in several cases where safety rules allegedly were broken. It has also fallen behind in imposing rules for concussions -- far behind even the NFL. Ramogi Huma, president of the National College Players Association, and a leading thorn in the NCAA's side for decades, said this latest backpedaling from the NCAA leaves him wondering why the organization exists at all. ``There's nothing left the NCAA can claim it does that is beneficial to college athletes or society. One has to wonder what does the NCAA do if it doesn't protect players ? If it doesn't play a role in the education of college athletics ? It begs the question of why does the NCAA exist -- and why does it have a tax exemption.''
( CNN ) The world's biggest and most powerful physics experiment is taking place as you read this. The Large Hadron Collider ( LHC ), a particle accelerator and the largest machine in the world, is ready for action following a two-year shutdown. After problems that delayed the restart in March, scientists at the European Organization for Nuclear Research ( CERN ) completed final tests, enabling the first beams to start circulating Sunday inside the LHC's 17 mile ( 27 km ) ring. ``Operating accelerators for the benefit of the physics community is what CERN's here for,'' CERN Director-General Rolf Heuer said on the organization's website. ``Today, CERN's heart beats once more to the rhythm of the LHC.''. The LHC generates up to 600 million particles per second, with a beam circulating for 10 hours, traveling more than 6 billion miles ( more than 10 billion kilometers ) -- the distance from Earth to Neptune and back again. At near light-speed, a proton in the LHC makes 11,245 circuits per second. It took thousands of scientists, engineers and technicians decades to devise and build the particle accelerator, housed in a tunnel between Lake Geneva and the Jura mountain range. The purpose of the lengthy project is to recreate the conditions that existed moments after the ``Big Bang'' -- the scientific theory said to explain the creation of the universe. By replicating the energy density and temperature, scientists hope to uncover how the universe evolved. Our current, limited, knowledge is based on what's called The Standard Model of particle physics. ``But we know that this model is not complete,'' Dr. Mike Lamont, operations group leader at the LHC, told CNN in March. The burning questions that remain include the origin of mass and why some particles are very heavy, while others have no mass at all ; a unified description of all the fundamental forces such as gravity ; and uncovering dark matter and dark energy, since visible matter accounts for only 4 percent of the universe. The LHC could also question the idea that the universe is only made of matter, despite the theory that antimatter must have been produced in the same amounts at the time of the Big Bang. CERN says the energies achievable by the LHC have only ever been found in nature. The machine alone costs approximately three billion euros ( about $ 3.3 billion ), paid for by member countries of CERN and contributions by non-member nations. The organization also asserts that its guidelines for the protection of the environment and personnel comply with standards set by Swiss and French laws and a European Council Directive. Scientists and physics enthusiasts will be waiting with bated breath as the LHC ventures into the great unknown. ``After two years of effort, the LHC is in great shape,'' said CERN Director for Accelerators and Technology, Frédérick Bordry. ``But the most important step is still to come when we increase the energy of the beams to new record levels.''. Peter Shadbolt contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Residents of central Sanaa, the Yemeni capital, have learned the hard way that key strategic bombing targets are located in their neighborhoods : Detonating ordnance has been shattering their windows and doors. And fighting has killed hundreds of people in less than two weeks. The Saudi-led coalition smashed parts of Yemen's Defense Ministry Central Command in the capital over the weekend, senior Yemeni officials said. Under the rain of coalition bombs, the Houthis, who are Shiites in a majority Sunni country, still control Sanaa. But the airstrikes have hurt them and destroyed a lot of infrastructure. The electricity has gone out on 16 million Yemenis living in Houthi-held areas, the Yemeni officials said. Many fear they will lose access to clean water as well. Yemen's deposed President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi heaped scorn on top of the airstrikes. He fired his former Army chief of staff, Hussein Khairan, on Sunday. The firing had no practical effect, since Khairan had switched sides weeks ago and is the Houthi rebels' acting defense minister. Hadi is holed up in Saudi Arabia, which is working to defeat his enemies and reinstall him. Fighting has ended dozens of lives each day. On Monday, more than 50 people died in the port city of Aden alone, where Houthis and their allies are battling troops loyal to Hadi on the ground, Agence France-Press reported. Since the bombing campaign and intense fighting began just over a week ago, some 600 people are estimated to have been killed. Many more have been wounded, and tens of thousands have fled the country. The International Committee of the Red Cross has cried out for a humanitarian ceasefire to let aid in. ``Otherwise, put starkly, many more people will die. For the wounded, their chances of survival depend on action within hours, not days,'' said Robert Mardini, the ICRC's head of operations in the Near and Middle East. ``Medical supplies need to be here yesterday,'' said ICRC spokeswoman Marie-Claire Feghali from Sanaa. ``We need to save the lives that can be saved.''. Saudi Arabia signed off on letting the ICRC into Yemen via two aircraft -- one with medical supplies, the other with workers. But flying in will be hard, since most airlines have canceled their flights, and airstrikes have taken out many airfields. On Monday, the flight loaded with 48 tons of medical supplies was grounded in Djibouti, Feghali said. The ICRC is hoping to fly out in a day or two. Following the ICRC's call, on Saturday the U.N. Security Council discussed the humanitarian situation at Russia's behest. Moscow submitted a draft resolution calling for a halt to the airstrikes by the nine-country regional coalition. The meeting adjourned with no decision announced. One diplomat said the draft was missing key elements. It didn't call for the Houthis to stop fighting or for political talks between the belligerents, the diplomat told CNN on condition of anonymity. Yemen has been descending into chaos in the weeks since Houthi rebels -- who have long complained of being marginalized in the majority Sunni country -- forced Hadi from power. The Houthis put Hadi under house arrest when they overtook Sanaa in January. But Hadi escaped in February, fled to Aden and declared himself to still be president. Houthis and their allies, including those loyal to Hadi's predecessor, then fought Hadi's forces in the Aden area. Hadi fled Aden in late March, ultimately for Saudi Arabia, when the rebels and their military allies advanced on the city. The conflict prompted Saudi Arabia, a predominately Sunni nation and Yemen's northern neighbor, and other Arab nations to intervene with force. The Houthis are allied with Iran, Saudi Arabia's bitter rival across the Persian Gulf, and Riyadh does not want an proxy of Iran in power on its border. Complicating matters in Yemen is the fact that al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula -- not the Houthis or the forces loyal to Hadi -- holds sway in the country's east. AQAP is considered one of the most ruthless branches of the terrorist organization. It has taken advantage of the chaos to overrun one city and break prisoners out of jail. Hadi's government had cooperated with the United States to fight AQAP, but with the Houthi takeover, that arrangement has evaporated, and the terror group operates generally unchecked.
( CNN ) The United States has seemingly erupted this week about what it means to live your religion, especially in Indiana, where its new Religious Freedom Restoration Act faces a firestorm from critics who say it uses faith as a pretext to discriminate against gay people. Such state laws have been growing ever since the U.S. Religious Freedom Restoration Act became law in 1993, designed to prohibit the federal government from ``substantially burdening'' a person's exercise of religion. So far, 20 states have some version of the religious liberty law, and the legal controversies have grown, too. Nonetheless, claims under those state RFRAs are ``exceedingly rare,'' and victories involved mostly religious minorities, not Christian denominations, experts say. ``There is reason to doubt whether these state-level religious liberty provisions truly provide meaningful protections for religious believers,'' wrote Wayne State University law professor Christopher Lund in a 2010 analysis, when there were only 16 states with such laws. Here are some of the more interesting cases arising from the federal and state laws, touching upon an array of religious matters from a knife carried by an IRS accountant to a tea from the Amazon :. He was a Native American with eagle feathers at a religious gathering of tribes. But not in the eyes of the feds. In 2006, Robert Soto and Michael Russell attended an American Indian powwow while in possession of eagle feathers, in violation of the federal Eagle Protection Act, which outlaws the killing of bald and golden eagles and even picking their feathers off the ground. Soto, a Lipan Apache, asserted he was participating in an Indian religious ceremony. The feathers are sacred to Native Americans. But a federal Fish and Wildlife Service agent found his tribe wasn't federally recognized, and Soto surrendered his feathers. Russell, who is married to Soto's sister, isn't American Indian and agreed to pay a fine, according to court papers and the America Bar Association Journal. Soto, however, petitioned the federal Interior Department to return his feathers. The feds said no, because he wasn't from a recognized tribe. Soto and Russell sued the federal government, but a federal district court ruled in favor of the government, rejecting the two men's First Amendment assertions and their claims under the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the same 1993 statute that Indiana legislators used in developing their new state law. But last August, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the trial court's decision and sent the case back to that court after finding the government's action would violate the federal RFRA. On March 10, the federal government returned the eagle feathers to Soto. But the legal war isn't over. The federal government still maintains it can criminally prosecute Soto and his congregants, so Soto is seeking a preliminary injunction, claiming the feds are violating the federal RFRA, said Luke Goodrich, Soto's attorney who's with the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty. A tea used by a Brazilian faith is to them like wine used by Catholics at communion, but U.S. agents considered the brew an illegal drug. The religious organization O Centro Espirita Beneficiente Uniao do Vegetal uses a sacramental tea called hoasca, made from two plants native to the Amazon that contains dimethyltryptamine, a hallucinogen, in violation of the Controlled Substances Act. The religion is a Christian spiritist faith that originated in Brazil and includes Amazonian and indigenous spiritual traditions. About 140 members of the church live in the United States and use the tea in a sacred communion. In May 1999, U.S. Customs agents entered the church headquarters in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and seized all of its hoasca. The church became alarmed and cited how the federal government allows an exception for American Indians to use another illegal drug, peyote, in their religious ceremonies. In fact, the federal RFRA was designed partly to protect the Native Americans' use of peyote, said CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin. ``They were a legitimate religion, and this was a legitimate ritual of the religion, and Congress wanted to make sure it was protected,'' Toobin said of peyote and the 1993 law. The Uniao do Vegetal, which means ``the union of the plants,'' cited that federal law in suing the federal government. ``The government has never explained why it has accommodated The Native American Church's use of peyote ( which contains mescaline, also a controlled substance ) but can not accommodate the UDV's use of hoasca,'' the church said in a statement. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in the church's favor, saying the federal government failed to show a compelling interest to ban the substance for religious use. ``The peyote exception also fatally undermines the government's broader contention that the Controlled Substances Act establishes a closed regulatory system that admits of no exceptions under RFRA,'' the court ruling said. Bruce Rich, an Orthodox Jewish prisoner in Florida, wanted kosher meals, but the warden said no. So Rich sued the state prison system in 2010, saying its denial of a kosher menu violated the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000, a landmark civil law rights law for inmates whose predecessor was the federal religious freedom law. Rich, 66, is serving a life sentence for murdering his parents, in their 70s, in 1995 allegedly to inherit their home. The prison system argued the meals were costly and would lead to security concerns, namely ``retaliation against the kosher inmates'' if other inmates believed the higher costs of kosher meals impacted the quality of their food, court papers said. At least 35 other states and the federal government, however, provided kosher diets to inmates. After losing before a magistrate, Rich won an appeal before the 11th Circuit Court, which cited ``the defendant's meager efforts to explain why Florida's prisons are so different from the penal institutions that now provide kosher meals such that the plans adopted by those other institutions would not work in Florida.''. Recently baptized in the Sikh faith, Kawal Tagore went to her job with the IRS in Houston in 2005 carrying a new religious item : a 9-inch kirpan, a small ceremonial sword that resembles a knife but has an edge that is blunted or curved. Tagore needed to carry the kirpan at all times as a mandatory article of faith. But the federal government banned her from the building, citing the kirpan as a ``dangerous weapon'' with a more than 3-inch blade, and she was later fired from her accounting job because she refused to keep the kirpan out of the workplace. Tagore sued the government under the federal law. Tagore cited how the government allowed the public to enter the federal building with more threatening objects : real 2.5-inch blade knives and metal canes, said her attorneys with the Newar Law Firm and the Becket Fund. Also, federal employees inside the building were allowed to use box cutters and cake knives. In November, the federal government agreed to settle the case shortly after the start of Tagore's trial. The settlement included no admission of wrongdoing, the Christian Science Monitor reported. Tagore's attorneys described the settlement as ``a groundbreaking policy allowing Sikhs and other religious minorities to wear religious symbols and attire in federal buildings,'' they said in a statement. Invoking a religious freedom law and related statutes doesn't always equate to victory. In Chicago, an association of 40 churches called the Civil Liberties for Urban Believers found it too onerous to erect houses of worship in business and commercial zones. The ministers needed a special use permit, but such permits were often thwarted by aldermen or it was too bureaucratic and costly to obtain one, the church leaders claimed. In fact, it was easier to get a club, lodge or community center approved. So the pastors sued the city of Chicago in 2000, alleging that its zoning laws violated the Illinois religious freedom statute, the federal Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act and the U.S. Constitution. But in 2003, the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a lower court decision and rejected the church group's claims, finding no substantial burden on the churches, which also failed to establish their RLUIPA claim. Defeated, church leaders were angry. ``The forty ( 40 ) churches in C.L.U.B. and certainly people of all faiths throughout Chicago are outraged by the majority opinion which neuters the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act passed unanimously by Congress in 2000,'' Apostle Theodore Wilkinson, the group's chairman, said in a statement. ``Also alarming is the court's conclusion that Chicago's religious assemblies have no free speech protection from zoning laws. The majority opinion would apparently extend free speech protection to religious assemblies only if they allowed live nude dancing,'' he said. At the same time, the city of Chicago revised its zoning ordinance to avoid ``the threat of heightened scrutiny under RLUIPA,'' according to a League of California Cities report in 2002. CNN's Alexandra Meeks contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The terrorist group Al-Shabaab has claimed an attack on Garissa University College in eastern Kenya, in which many people have been killed and still more taken hostage. The attack is another step in the ongoing escalation of the terrorist group's activities, and a clear indicator that the security situation in East Africa is deteriorating fast. Somalia-based Al-Shabaab has been behind a string of recent attacks in Kenya, the most well-known of them being the massacre at the Westgate Shopping Centre in Nairobi in 2013. Cross-border raids into Kenya by the group, however, date back to 2011. Al-Shabaab incursions triggered a military response by the government in Nairobi, which sent troops to Somalia as part of an African Union mission in support of Somalia's internationally recognized government that had been under pressure from Al-Shabaab and other militants for several years. Al-Shabaab is predominantly driven by the same radical interpretation of the Koran as al-Qaeda and ISIS ( also known as Islamic State ), but also employs more opportunistic approaches to shoring up local support. Its origins lie in Al-Ittihad al-Islami ( Unity of Islam ), one of several militant factions that emerged in the wake of the fall of Siad Barre in 1991. These disparate groups fought each other and a U.N. peacekeeping mission in the Somali civil war that led to the complete collapse of the country, from which it has yet to recover almost quarter of a century later. Al-Shabaab ( literally ``the Youth'' ) split from Unity of Islam in 2003 and merged with another radical Islamist group, the so-called Islamic Courts Union. As their alliance obtained control of Somalia's capital Mogadishu in 2006, Ethiopia, the only majority Christian country in the region, took military action against the group. The offensive weakened Al-Shabaab and pushed it back into the rural areas of central and southern Somalia, but it failed to defeat it. To the contrary, Ethiopia's invasion and occupation of parts of Somalia -- although invited by the Somali government and backed by the African Union -- enabled Al-Shabaab to partially re-invent itself as both an Islamist and nationalist force opposing a foreign ``Christian'' invasion. Initially, the group primarily attacked Ethiopian forces, but soon began to ``expand'' its activities against the Somali government as well. The first attack outside Somalia was an attack in the Ugandan capital of Kampala in 2010. Soon after this, cross-border raids in Kenya began, predominantly targeting Christians there. Increasing its links with al-Qaeda, Al-Shabaab declared its full allegiance in 2012 -- and it is not clear whether it will switch allegiances to ISIS. Much will depend on how the relationships between al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula ( AQAP ), a long-time ally of Al-Shabaab based in Yemen, and ISIS develop. The key point is that Al-Shabaab's attack in Garissa is part of a broader regional context of instability fueled by a huge number of factors. It must not be interpreted simply as another act of garden-variety fundamentalist terrorism. Clearly, the presence and activities of terrorist groups in the region is a major concern, and it is undoubtedly driven by radical and exclusivist interpretations of Islam. But the entire region also suffers from a range of other problems : from economic development challenges to environmental degradation ; from organized crime to inter-tribal and inter-communal violence ; from corruption to serious deficits in human rights and good governance. These entrenched inequalities help Al-Shabaab appeal to a wide variety of potential recruits, who may sympathize with and actively support the group for any number of reasons. Attacking a university in northern Kenya and separating Christian from Muslim students epitomizes the way Al-Shabaab advances itself by exploiting religious, tribal and nationalist identities. Ultimately, though, this all comes down to a struggle for control -- over people, over territory, and over resources. As long as the majority of people in the region remain excluded from any meaningful political, economic, and social participation in their societies -- which are dominated by primarily self-interested elites that put their own advance before that of their communities -- human lives matter little in the pursuit of selfish interests. It is important to counter Al-Shabaab directly, including by military means. But there won't be any lasting solution to the wider region's security problems without a more comprehensive and concerted effort to address the deeper problems of exclusion suffered by the citizens of the countries challenged by Al-Shabaab. As Garissa shows, these problems are still providing oxygen for nihilistic ideologies and their deadly fruit. Copyright 2015 The Conversation. Some rights reserved.
( CNN ) A Connecticut teen who has been forced to have chemotherapy to treat Hodgkin lymphoma will remain in temporary custody of the state for the time being, according to her attorney, Josh Michtom. A Connecticut juvenile court judge issued a written decision Wednesday denying a motion to let the teen, identified in court documents as ``Cassandra C.,'' go home. The judge also denied a motion for visitation. The 17-year-old is in remission after nearly six months of forced chemo treatments. On March 16, Michtom tried to convince the court that she should be able to return to her mother's home because she was no longer at imminent risk of harm from her illness. Michtom and attorney Michael Taylor, who represents Cassandra's mother, Jackie Fortin, released a written statement after receiving the judge's decision Wednesday : ``We are disappointed in this ruling, not least of all because it draws a factual conclusion that is directly contradicted by the weight of the evidence. We're conferring with our clients now about next steps, including whether to take another appeal.''. Cassandra was diagnosed with Hodgkin lymphoma in September and medical experts gave her an 85 % chance of survival if treated with chemotherapy. Without it, doctors said at the time, she was likely to die within two years. She started chemotherapy in November but ran away after two days, according to court documents, when she decided she did not want to put the poison of the treatment into her body. In December, a judge ordered the young woman to be under the custody of the Connecticut Department of Children and Families. At that time, she was admitted to Connecticut Children's Medical Center in Hartford and has remained there since then. Doctors surgically implanted a port in Cassandra's chest to administer chemotherapy medications, which began in spite of legal maneuvers to halt them. Cassandra is feeling well and is in good shape as far as her health is concerned, according to Michtom. ``She's seen in her case the side effects weren't bad, and she's been well-treated by the nurses and doctors and does want to complete the treatment,'' he said. Her treatment is scheduled to wrap up this month. Michtom and Taylor failed in their effort before the Connecticut Supreme Court to make the case that Cassandra was mature enough to make her own medical decisions. Joette Katz, the commissioner of the Department of Children and Families, told CNN in March the agency is ``very pleased with Cassandra's progress toward a complete recovery. We understand how difficult this has been for Cassandra and her family, but we have had full confidence throughout that the medical professionals involved in her treatment would be successful in saving her life.''. The agency has denied CNN's request to speak with Cassandra or her physicians. According to Michtom, the Department of Children and Families could have withdrawn its position for an order of custody but hasn't. He said the department sees Cassandra as a flight risk because she has run away before. Representatives for the department have said in court and in conversations with Michtom and Taylor that they will withdraw their pending neglect petition once Cassandra completes her last round of chemo -- expected around the end of April -- and that she'll be allowed to return home. So for now, Cassandra is said to spend her days reading, watching TV and drawing. ``The hospital is effectively jail,'' Michtom said.
( CNN ) Mark Ronson's ``Uptown Funk !,'' featuring Bruno Mars, is the longest-leading Billboard Hot 100 of the 2010s, ruling the chart for a 13th week. It's also just the 10th single in the Hot 100's entire history to spend at least 13 weeks at No. 1. Plus, newcomer Natalie La Rose reaches the top 10 with her debut hit ``Somebody,'' featuring Jeremih. As we do each Wednesday, let's run down all the songs in the top 10, and a bit beyond, on the sales/airplay/streaming-based Hot 100 ( dated April 11 ). ``Funk,'' released on RCA Records, passes Robin Thicke's ``Blurred Lines,'' featuring T.I. and Pharrell to take sole possession of the Hot 100's longest command this decade. Here's an updated look at the hits to lead for the most weeks since the beginning of 2010 :. Weeks at No. 1, Title, Artist, Date Reached No. 1. 13 ( to date ), ``Uptown Funk !,'' Ronson feat. Mars, Jan. 17, 2015. 12, ``Blurred Lines,'' Robin Thicke feat. T.I. + Pharrell, June 22, 2013. 10, ``Happy,'' Pharrell Williams, March 8, 2014. 10, ``We Found Love,'' Rihanna feat. Calvin Harris, Nov. 12, 2011. ``Funk'' also becomes one of an elite 10 singles ever to top the Hot 100 for at least 13 weeks, dating to the chart's Aug. 4, 1958 launch :. Weeks at No. 1, Title, Artist, Date Reached No. 1. 16, ``One Sweet Day,'' Mariah Carey & Boyz II Men, Dec. 2, 1995. 14, ``I Got ta Feeling,'' The Black Eyed Peas, July 11, 2009. 14, ``We Belong Together,'' Mariah Carey, June 4, 2005. 14, ``Candle in the Wind 1997'' / ``Something About the Way You Look Tonight,'' Elton John, Oct. 11, 1997. 14, ``Macarena ( Bayside Boys Mix ),'' Los Del Rio, Aug. 3, 1996. 14, ``I'll Make Love to You,'' Boyz II Men, Aug. 27, 1994. 14, ``I Will Always Love You,'' Whitney Houston, Nov. 28, 1992. 13 ( to date ), ``Uptown Funk !,'' Ronson feat. Mars, Jan. 17, 2015. 13, ``The Boy Is Mine,'' Brandy & Monica, June 6, 1998. 13, ``End of the Road,'' Boyz II Men, Aug. 15, 1992. Ask Billboard : Will `Uptown Funk !' be the Hot 100's No. 1 Song of 2015 ?. With ``Funk'' now just three weeks from potentially tying ``One Sweet Day'' for the record, and four weeks from possibly claiming it all to itself, can it rewrite Hot 100 history ? It's too early to forecast charts a month away, but ``Funk'' still sports strong leads in all main Hot 100 metrics. ``Funk'' logs a 13th week atop the Digital Songs chart with 165,000 downloads sold ( down 12 percent ) in the week ending March 29, according to Nielsen Music. That's a record-tying feat : ``Funk !'' matches Flo Rida's 2007-08 hit ``Low,'' featuring T-Pain, for the most weeks a title has spent at No. 1 on Digital Songs. ``Funk'' also leads Streaming Songs ( 16.2 million U.S. streams, down 15 percent ) for an 11th week. On Radio Songs, ``Funk'' reigns for a 10th week with 166 million in all-format audience ( down 4 percent ). It's the first song to reach double-digit weeks at No. 1 on Radio Songs since ``Blurred Lines'' led for 11. Ask Billboard : Will `Uptown Funk !' Be the Hot 100's No. 1 Song of 2015 ?. ``Funk,'' thus, leads the Hot 100 and its three main component charts ( Digital Songs, Radio Songs and Streaming Songs ) simultaneously for a record-extending ninth week ( nonconsecutively ). Perhaps helping the chances that ``Funk'' can remain at No. 1 on the Hot 100, at least for another week : while it's down by 11 percent in overall activity, the No. 2 song ( for a third week ), Maroon 5's ``Sugar,'' decreases by 3 percent, while Ed Sheeran's ``Thinking Out Loud,'' at No. 3 ( for a third week, after peaking at No. 2 for eight weeks ), is off by 2 percent. And, the lead of ``Funk'' over those songs is still significant : they each boast approximately two-thirds of the Hot 100 points of ``Funk'' this week. Could either ``Sugar'' or ``Loud'' rebound to challenge ``Funk'' further on the Hot 100 ? Could another song in the top 10 topple it ? Or, is it a song just building, or not even yet released, that will take over ? Again, it's too soon to tell. We know only that a song will eventually dethrone the uncommonly overarching smash that ``Funk'' has become. ( At least we think one will.. ). Chart Highlights : Taylor Swift's `Style' hits No. 1 on adult pop songs. Meanwhile, ``Sugar'' takes over at No. 1 on the subscription services-based On-Demand Songs chart, despite a 10 percent drop to 4.1 million streams. ( ``Funk'' falls to No. 3 on the list after 11 weeks at No. 1. ) ``Sugar'' holds at No. 2 on Digital Songs ( 143,000, down 8 percent ) ; rises 4-2 on Radio Songs ( 133 million, up 3 percent ) ; and keeps at No. 4 on Streaming Songs ( 9.5 million, down 4 percent ). Below Sheeran, Ellie Goulding's ``Love Me Like You Do'' holds at No. 4 on the Hot 100 after reaching No. 3. The Fifty Shades of Grey soundtrack single dips 3-4 on Digital Songs ( 114,000, down 14 percent ) and stays at No. 5 on Radio Songs ( 118 million, up 8 percent ) and Streaming Songs ( 9 million, up 9 percent ). From the same hit movie, The Weeknd's ``Earned It ( Fifty Shades of Grey )'' reaches the Hot 100's top five ( 6-5 ), adding top Airplay Gainer honors for a second week. On Radio Songs, it pushes 9-6 with a 23 percent gain to 86 million. ``Earned'' ( a possible contender for No. 1 on the Hot 100.. ) holds at No. 6 on both Streaming Songs ( 8.9 million, up 24 percent ) and Digital Songs ( 107,000, up 4 percent ). The sultry track also takes over at No. 1 on Billboard's Hot R&B / Hip-Hop Songs chart. Chart Highlights : Taylor Swift's `Style' Hits No. 1 on Adult Pop Songs. Fetty Wap's ``Trap Queen'' rises 8-6 on the Hot 100, while spending a second week at No. 1 on Hot Rap Songs ; Taylor Swift's ``Style'' ranks at No. 7 on the Hot 100 for a third week after reaching No. 6 ( and, as previously reported, reaches No. 1 on the Adult Pop Songs airplay chart ) ; Rihanna, Kanye West and Paul McCartney's ``FourFiveSeconds'' drops 5-8 on the Hot 100 after climbing to No. 4 ( and departs the Hot R&B / Hip-Hop Songs summit after seven weeks ) ; and Flo Rida climbs 10-9 with ``G.D.F.R.,'' featuring Sage the Gemini and Lookas. The rapper's new EP, My House, arrives Tuesday ( April 7 ). One song is new to the Hot 100's top 10 : La Rose's ``Somebody,'' featuring Jeremih ( 13-10 ). The Dutch singer's debut hit lifts 10-8 on Radio Songs ( 73 million, up 9 percent ) ; backtracks 13-14 on Digital Songs, but with a 7 percent gain to 68,000 ; and zooms 31-19 on Streaming Songs ( 4.3 million, up 5 percent ). The track tops the Rhythmic Songs airplay chart for a second week. ( Jeremih scores his fourth Hot 100 top 10, and first in a featured role. ). La Rose is adjacent to her friend, and mentor, Flo Rida, on the Hot 100. After she had introduced herself to him at a party, they soon began working together, and she started touring with him. They created ``Somebody,'' based on Whitney Houston's 1987 Hot 100 No. 1 ``I Wan na Dance With Somebody ( Who Loves Me ),'' as La Rose is a ``huge fan of'80s music,'' as she told Billboard. She's currently recording her debut EP. Just beyond the Hot 100's top 10, Walk the Moon's ``Shut Up and Dance'' pushes 15-12, and is the new No. 1 on the Hot Rock Songs chart, while Jason Derulo's ``Want to Want Me'' bounds 27-17. And, Rihanna roars in at No. 23 with ``B **** Better Have My Money,'' the chart's highest debut, powered largely by its No. 5 debut on Digital Songs ( 108,000 sold since its digital retail arrival on March 26 ). More details on action below the top 10 in the weekly ``Hot 100 Chart Moves'' column to post on Friday ( April 3 ). See the original story at Billboard.com. © 2015 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.
( CNN ) ``Jake the dog and Finn the human. The fun will never end. Adventure Time.''. So begins the dreamy theme song intro to the strangely addictive Cartoon Network TV show that's centered around psychedelic characters like the Ice King, Marceline the Vampire Queen and, of course, Jake and Finn. Now, mega-fans of the hit show can experience ``Adventure Time'' in the skies. Thai Smile, a subsidiary of Thailand flag carrier Thai Airways, on Thursday unveiled colorful new livery featuring Jake, Finn and the beloved Princess Bubblegum sprawled across an Airbus A320 at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi International Airport. The interior of the plane also has an Adventure Time theme, with overhead bins, head rests and even air sickness bags covered in the faces of characters from the show. Airlines show off their new flying colors. The Adventure Time plane is the result of a partnership between Thai Airways subsidiary Thai Smile and Cartoon Network Amazone, a new water park near the Thai resort city of Pattaya featuring attractions based on shows that appear on the Turner Broadcasting System channel. Turner Broadcasting is a parent company of CNN. Check out these cool airline liveries. The inaugural Thai Smile Adventure Time flight takes place on April 4, heading from Bangkok to Phuket.
( CNN ) A high temperature of 63.5 degrees Fahrenheit might sound like a pleasant day in early spring -- unless you're in Antarctica. The chilly continent recorded the temperature ( 15.5 degrees Celsius ) on March 24, possibly the highest ever recorded on Antarctica, according to the Weather Underground. The temperature was recorded at Argentina's Esperanza Base on the northern tip of the Antarctica Peninsula, according to CNN affiliate WTNH. ( Note to map lovers : The Argentine base is not geographically part of the South American continent. ). The World Meteorological Organization, a specialized United Nations agency, is in the process of setting up an international ad-hoc committee of about 10 blue-ribbon climatologists and meteorologists to begin collecting relevant evidence, said Randy Cerveny, the agency's lead rapporteur of weather and climate extremes and Arizona State University professor of geographical sciences. The committee will examine the equipment used to measure the temperature, whether it was in good working order, whether the correct monitoring procedures were followed, whether the equipment was placed in the correct location and whether the measurement is matched by corresponding records from surrounding stations, Cerveny said. The committee will discuss the issues and make a recommendation to Cerveny, who will make an official finding, probably by late summer or early fall. Researchers who study climate change carefully watch weather changes in the Antarctic region and elsewhere for evidence that the Earth is getting warmer.
Seoul, South Korea ( CNN ) The man accused of stabbing U.S. Ambassador Mark Lippert in Seoul last month is now charged with attempted murder, a South Korean court official said Wednesday. Kim Ki-Jong has also been charged with assaulting a foreign envoy and business obstruction, the Seoul Central District Court official said. According to South Korean law, Kim's trial must begin within 14 days of receiving today's indictment. Lippert was stabbed March 5 during an event organized by the Korean Council for Reconciliation and Cooperation, which advocates peaceful reunification between North and South Korea. Shortly before Lippert was supposed to give a speech, the attacker slashed him in the face and jaw. The ambassador suffered a gash from his right cheekbone to his lower jaw that required 80 stitches. That wound measured 10 centimeters ( 4 inches ) long and 2.5 centimeters ( 1 inch ) deep, but there was no serious facial nerve damage, said Dr. Jung Nam-shik of the Yonsei Severance Hospital. Lippert also suffered five cuts in his left arm and hand, but was not expected to have permanent damage to his arm function. Police said Kim stabbed Lippert with a 10-inch knife because he opposed the joint South Korean-U.S. military drills, which happen every year and frequently draw the ire of North Korea. Police official Yoon Myeong-seong told reporters that Kim had visited North Korea seven times between 1999 and 2007, and that authorities were investigating a possible connection between his visits to the reclusive state and the attack against Lippert. Kim, 55, has a history of unpredictable behavior. In 2010, he received a suspended two-year prison sentence for throwing a piece of concrete at a Japanese ambassador to South Korea, according to the Yonhap news agency. South Korean President Park Geun-hye condemned the attack. ``This incident is not only a physical attack on the U.S. ambassador,'' she said, ``but an attack on the South Korea-U.S. alliance and it can never be tolerated.''. CNN's Madison Park and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
( CNN ) President Barack Obama tied himself to the mast of a nuclear deal with Iran even before he became the Democratic candidate for president. Reaching a good, solid agreement with Iran is a worthy, desirable goal. But the process has unfolded under the destructive influence of political considerations, weakening America's hand and strengthening Iran. Obama's political standing and his historic legacy in foreign policy are so deeply intertwined with reaching an accord with Iran that if the deal ultimately collapses, he may fear that historians will conclude that his legacy in global affairs collapsed with it. There is a reason one gets the feeling that it is the United States and not Iran that is the more eager, even desperate, side in these talks, even though Iran is the country whose economy was sent into a deep chill by international sanctions ; the country whose only significant export, oil, lost more than half of its value in recent months. The reason is that Obama has a huge political stake in these negotiations. The President may insist that the United States will choose no deal over a bad deal, but few people truly believe he has a credible Plan B. Few believe it, particularly in the Middle East and notably among America's Arab friends, who hold the view that Iran is running circles around the United States and outplayed Obama. As the writer David Rothkopf aptly put it, ``Iran is having a great Obama administration.''. That's a belief that has already started shaking up the region. Saudi Arabia has said that it will pursue nuclear weapons if it believes Iran has not been stopped, and there is little doubt that other countries among Iran's Muslim rivals will do the same. In fact, the notion that Obama is not handling the Iranian threat effectively is contributing to a new war in Yemen, where Saudi Arabia and other Arabs are trying to push back against gains by Iran's allies. We can trace it all back to the Democratic primaries in 2007, when then-Sen. Obama said he would meet Iran's leaders ``without preconditions,'' leading his rival, Hillary Clinton, to call the idea ``Irresponsible and frankly naive.'' As the years of his presidency unfolded, and the Middle East started coming apart, finding a deal with Iran started to look like the one major foreign policy achievement Obama might leave behind. The political imperative started to intrude in strategic considerations on an issue that is of transcendent importance to world peace. The framework agreement announced on Thursday came two days after Obama's March 31 deadline. The U.S.-imposed deadline served only to pressure the United States, and the French ambassador very publicly decried as a ``bad tactic.''. That bad tactic was a political move, a push to produce some sort of result, however vague, to protect the talks from critics. Again, a solid agreement that ensures Iran will not produce nuclear weapons would be a most welcome development. But the agreement so far does not look promising. It certainly shows the final outcome will differ greatly from what Obama had vowed. In a presidential debate in 2012, Obama described a crystal clear goal for negotiations. ``The deal we'll accept is they end their nuclear program. It's very straightforward.''. Nobody is talking about Iran ending its nuclear program. Not even close. Iran will be allowed to keep one-third of its more than 6,000 centrifuges. That's not a small symbolic number. And it does not appear as though any of its nuclear facilities will be dismantled, although Fordow will contain no nuclear materials. Iran has insisted all along that its nuclear program has only civilian uses. The fact is that Iran has a well-established record of lying and concealing the elements of its nuclear program to U.N. inspectors. And the U.N. agency chief says that has not stopped. A couple of weeks ago, with days left until the negotiating deadline, U.N. nuclear chief Yukiya Amano said Iran is still stonewalling. ``We are still not in a position to conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is -LSB- for a -RSB- peaceful purpose,'' he warned. The negotiations' starting point is that Iran would like to have the bomb and the international community wants to delay that as much as possible -- and preferably, forever. The world only learned about Iran's secret facilities at Arak and Natanz after dissidents raised the alarm. Iran, we have learned repeatedly, is very good at lying to international inspectors. It is well-established that it has had something to hide about its nuclear program. It is well-established that many of Iran's neighbors don't trust it and are anxious about the U.S.-led international dealings with Iran. It is well-established that Iran has engaged in international terrorism and in destabilizing the region. It is also clear that it took harsh international sanctions and a collapse in oil prices to bring Iran to the negotiating table. It was Iran that had the most to lose from a failure of talks. But political considerations turned the United States into the supplicant. The framework agreement starts lifting those indispensable sanctions much too soon. Nuclear enrichment will continue, although at a lower level. Iran officially, legally, becomes a nuclear threshold state, with the capability to make the final dash to a bomb within a ``breakout'' period of one year, the time when presumably inspectors would discover violation and allow the rest of the world to act. Even the Fordow facility, conveniently inside a fortified bunker in a mountain, will remain in existence, though ``converted'' to a nuclear ``research facility'' And without nuclear material on site. International sanctions lifting will begin almost immediately. Its nuclear infrastructure will remain largely in place, even if operating at a reduced pace, giving Iran much of what it wanted. With Iranian forces gaining ground in Arab lands and Iranian commanders declaring the destruction of Israel ``nonnegotiable'' and threatening Saudi Arabia, this deal does not look reassuring. Obama is right that a diplomatic solution is the most desirable option. But the deal so far looks like ( another ) win for Iran. It introduces enough restrictions that it could give the President the political cover he wants, but it does not do enough to make the world safe from nuclear proliferation and more potentially catastrophic instability in the Middle East.
( CNN ) Deion Sanders is such a dad. The NFL legend called out Deion Sanders Jr. on Twitter for saying he only eats ``hood doughnuts.''. In response, the elder Sanders -- in front of his 912,000 followers -- reminded his son he has a trust fund, a condo and his own clothing line called ``Well Off.''. ``You're a Huxtable with a million $ trust fund. Stop the hood stuff !'' Sanders followed it up with another tweet that included the hashtags #versacesheets #Huxtable and #Trustfund. Junior is a wide receiver at Southern Methodist University, an aspiring entrepreneur and occasional rapper. His Twitter timeline is a mix of biblical verses, motivational quotes and references to sports, cars, school and Balenciaga shoes. He also has gone on record with his love for ``hood doughnuts,'' or confections from ``a place in the hood,'' saying ``if my doughnuts don't come in a plain white box, I don't want them !''. His father promptly put him in his place. Sanders Jr. seemed to take the public browbeating in stride, retweeting his father's comments. At least he knew better than to delete them.
( CNN ) Blue Bell ice cream has temporarily shut down one of its manufacturing plants over the discovery of listeria contamination in a serving of ice cream originating from that plant. Public health officials warned consumers Friday not to eat any Blue Bell-branded products made at the company's Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, plant. That includes 3-ounce servings of Blue Bell ice cream from this plant that went to institutions in containers marked with the letters O, P, Q, R, S or T behind the coding date. The warning by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention does not affect other Blue Bell ice cream, including other 3-ounce servings, not made at the plant. But Blue Bell has recalled other products. The company is shutting down the Broken Arrow facility ``out of an abundance of caution'' to search for a possible cause of contamination. It is the third time Blue Bell has taken action in light of a listeria outbreak at a Kansas hospital that served the company's ice cream. Listeria monocytogenes was recently found in a cup of ice cream recovered from the hospital. The cup contaminated with the bacteria was produced at the Broken Arrow plant in April 2014, Blue Bell said. And, according to the CDC, listeria bacteria was found in additional samples of the same product that were recovered from the plant. The bacteria in the hospital sample and the factory sample appeared to match each other genetically, the CDC said. But they did not appear identical to listeria samples taken from patients infected in the Kansas outbreak. In a separate outbreak in Texas, the CDC did find that listeria samples taken from patients who came down with listeriosis between 2010 and 2014 in a hospital that served 3-ounce Blue Bell cups matched the listeria in recovered samples. None of this means the ice cream is the source of either spate of the infections. ``Investigation to determine whether these illnesses are related to exposure to Blue Bell products is ongoing,'' the CDC said. In early March, in light of the Kansas listeria outbreak, Blue Bell recalled a group of products made at a plant in Texas. It later added 3-ounce cup servings to the recall. Five people were infected and three died in the past year in Kansas from listeria that might be linked to Blue Bell Creameries products, according to the CDC. All five of them were hospitalized at the same hospital before developing listeriosis, the CDC said. At least four of them had consumed milkshakes made with Blue Bell ice cream before developing the infection. ``We are devastated and know that Blue Bell has to be and can be better than this,'' Paul Kruse, Blue Bell CEO and president, said in a statement. ``Quality and safety have always been our top priorities. We are deeply saddened and concerned for all those who have been affected.''. The CDC advises that individuals and institutions should check their freezers for the recalled products and throw them away. In a statement on its website, Blue Bell said ``this recall in no way includes Blue Bell ice cream half gallons, pints, quarts, 3 gallons or other 3 oz. cups.''. This has been the first product recall in the 108-year history of Blue Bell Creameries, the company said. Listeriosis is a serious infection caused by eating food contaminated with listeria, and primarily affects the elderly, pregnant women, newborns and people with weakened immune systems, according to the CDC. Symptoms of a listeria infection are fever and muscle aches, sometimes associated with diarrhea or other gastrointestinal symptoms. In the United States, an estimated 1,600 people become seriously ill each year, and approximately 16 % of these illnesses result in death. Cervical infections caused by listeriosis in pregnant women may result in stillbirth or spontaneous abortion during the second or third trimesters. CNN's Debra Goldschmidt, Amanda Watts and Jacque Wilson contributed to this report.
( CNN ) When Hong Kong police answered a call in the early hours of a Saturday morning last November, they encountered a grisly scene and an alleged crime that shocked the city. One woman was lying on the floor with cuts to her neck and buttocks. Another was stuffed inside a suitcase on the balcony. A former banker, 29-year-old Briton Rurik Jutting, was charged with two counts of murder. On Thursday, a court hearing that was to determine whether there was enough evidence to proceed to trial was adjourned until May. Here's what we know so far about the victims and their alleged attacker. Jutting allegedly lived at the murder scene, an upmarket apartment in the middle of Wan Chai, an inner-city suburb that's home to an eclectic mix of late-night bars, residential tower blocks and local markets selling groceries and assorted cheap goods. In the early hours of Saturday morning, November 1, police say Jutting called them to the apartment. There they found a woman lying on the blood-splattered floor, later identified as 29-year-old Seneng Mujiasih. During a search of the apartment, officers uncovered another body hidden in a suitcase on the balcony. It's alleged 25-year-old Sumarti Ningsih was killed on October 27, five days before her body was found. Sumarti Ningsih was from Cilacap, in Central Java, and was the mother of a five-year-old girl. In a statement, her cousin, Jumiati, described her as ``just an ordinary woman from Indonesia'' who, like many others, was ``forced to work abroad to feed her poor family and make her dream comes ( sic ) true.''. ``She wanted to work as professional so she can earn money and dignity for her family,'' Jumiati wrote. ``She is good girl and did not deserve this treatment.''. According to the Asian Migrant Coordinating Body, Ningsih was visiting Hong Kong as a tourist and had been due to fly back to Jakarta the day after her body was found. Last year, her grieving father, Ahmad Khaliman, told Agence France-Presse that his daughter had worked in Hong Kong as a domestic helper between 2011 and 2013. She'd since returned on two occasions, Khaliman said. He said the family had been shocked by her murder, and called for the perpetrator to be executed. ``If not, I can not accept it. He has already taken my daughter's life, so he has to pay with his life,'' he told CNN affiliate Trans7. Seneng Mujiasih had more recently worked as a domestic worker in Hong Kong but had overstayed her visa, according to the Asian Migrant Co-ordinating Body. Also known as Jesse Lorena, Mujiasih was from the city of Muna in Sulawesi province, in southeast Indonesia. Other than that, few details are known about her life and why she stayed on in Hong Kong. After news of their death spread, fellow domestic workers held a vigil in Hong Kong's Victoria Park. Around 200 people gathered to sing and pray, and lay flowers besides photos of the two women. The victims' bodies were buried after being repatriated to Indonesia in November. Before being taken into custody, Rurik Jutting lived in the upmarket J Residence in Wan Chai. He was detained at the scene, where police found the bodies of two women and seized a knife during a search of the premises. It's unclear when Jutting left his job as a trader at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch ; a BoA spokesman would only confirm that a man of the same name had worked there in the past. Jutting's profile on LinkedIn said he haad been employed at the bank's structured equity finance and trading division in Hong Kong since July 2013. Before that, he worked in the same unit in London for three years. According to the profile, Jutting previously worked in capital markets for the British bank Barclays and studied history and law at the prestigious University of Cambridge, between 2004 and 2008. As part of the trial process, tests were conducted to determined if Jutting was psychologically fit to enter a plea. He was. The case was then adjourned to allow for more than 200 pieces of forensic and DNA evidence to be analyzed.
( CNN ) Universal's ``Furious 7'' continues to build momentum at the Friday box office for a weekend debut in the $ 135 million - $ 138 million range, the largest opening in North America since fall 2013. That includes a projected Friday take of $ 58 million - $ 60 million. The final film featuring the late Paul Walker, ``Furious 7'' is opening around the globe this weekend and earned a record-breaking $ 60 million internationally on Wednesday and Thursday for a possible worldwide debut approaching or crossing $ 300 million by the end of Easter Sunday. ``Furious 7'' is getting the widest release in Universal's history. Domestically, it will be playing in 4,003 theaters by Good Friday. Internationally, it has booked more than 10,500 screens in 63 territories, although it won't open in China, Japan and Russia until later. The current record-holder for top April opening domestically is ``Captain America : The Winter Soldier,'' which debuted to $ 95 million from 3,928 theaters last year. ``Furious 7'' is likewise poised to nab the biggest opening of 2015 to date. And it will easily beat the $ 121.9 million launch of ``The Hunger Games Mockingjay -- Part 1'' in November 2104, making it the largest three-day opening since ``The Hunger Games : Catching Fire'' ( $ 158 million ) in November 2013. The movie enjoys massive awareness and interest, due to both the popularity of the street-racing series and Walker's death. The last film, ``Fast & Furious 6,'' debuted to a franchise-best $ 117 million over the four-day Memorial Day weekend in 2012, including $ 97.4 million for the three days, on its way to grossing $ 788.7 million worldwide. Universal intended to open ``Furious 7'' on July 11, 2014, but production was halted in November 2013 when Walker died in a car crash during the Thanksgiving hiatus. After director James Wan, writer Chris Morgan and Universal pored over existing footage and tweaked the script, production resumed in April 2014. CGI and voice effects were used in some scenes featuring Walker's detective character, Brian O'Conner, with Walker's brothers, Caleb and Cody, used as stand-ins. ``Furious 7'' pits Vin Diesel's Dominic Toretto and crew ( which includes Michelle Rodriguez and Tyrese Gibson, among others, as well as Walker ) against Jason Statham's Deckard Shaw, out for revenge after the death of his brother. Dwayne Johnson also reprises his role as Hobbs. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Imprisoned soldier Chelsea Manning can now communicate with the world -- in 140 characters or less. Manning, who is serving a 35-year prison sentence for leaking thousands of classified documents, appears to have joined Twitter this week. In a series of tweets, the prisoner formerly known as Bradley Manning said she will be using a voice phone to dictate her tweets to communications firm Fitzgibbon Media, which will post them on her behalf. She is not allowed Internet access in prison, according to The Guardian. ``It will be hard, but I don't want this Twitter feed to be a one-way street/conversation,'' Manning posted to her nearly 26,000-plus followers. Manning was sentenced in 2013, and in August of that year, she said she wanted to transition to a female. The Fort Leavenworth Disciplinary Barracks in Kansas, where she is serving her sentence, has authorized hormone therapy for her treatment. Manning said she suffers from gender dysphoria. Her lawyers describe it as ``the medical diagnosis given to individuals whose gender identity -- their innate sense of being male or female -- differs from the sex they were assigned at birth, causing clinically significant distress.''. Last year, a Kansas judge granted her request to be formally known as Chelsea Elizabeth Manning. The former Army intelligence analyst was convicted of stealing and disseminating 750,000 pages of documents and videos to WikiLeaks in what has been described as the largest leak of classified material in U.S. history. She was found guilty of 20 of the 22 charges, including violations of the U.S. Espionage Act. Manning has written opinion pieces for The New York Times and The Guardian from prison.
( CNN ) According to an outside review by Columbia Journalism School professors,'' ( a ) n institutional failure at Rolling Stone resulted in a deeply flawed article about a purported gang rape at the University of Virginia.''. The Columbia team concluded that ``The failure encompassed reporting, editing, editorial supervision and fact-checking.''. Hardly a ringing endorsement of the editorial process at the publication. The magazine's managing editor, Will Dana, wrote, ``We would like to apologize to our readers and to all of those who were damaged by our story and the ensuing fallout, including members of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity and UVA administrators and students.''. Brian Stelter : Fraternity to `pursue all available legal action'. The next question is :. Can UVA, Phi Kappa Psi or any of the other fraternities on campus sue for defamation ?. The Virginia Supreme Court said in Jordan v. Kollman that ``the elements of libel are ( 1 ) publication of ( 2 ) an actionable statement with ( 3 ) the requisite intent.''. ``Actionable'' means the statement must be both false and defamatory. Of course, the law of defamation must be balanced against the freedom of speech protected under not only the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, but also the Virginia Constitution. True statements can not be defamatory. Neither can pure statements of opinion, because they theoretically can not be either true or false. But the Rolling Stone article certainly purported to be fact, and it apparently is not exactly what the law considers ``true.''. The individual members of the fraternity will likely be considered private individuals, and not public figures ; the latter have a harder time proving defamation. A private person suing for defamation must establish that the defendant has published a false factual statement that is about the person and that it also harms the person's reputation. The private plaintiff also must show that the defendant knew that the statement was false, or believed it was true but lacked a reasonable basis, or acted negligently in checking the facts. At first blush, that sounds like it fits perfectly, right ? The Columbia report may go a long way toward establishing at least a modicum of the required intent. But that's only half the battle. There are strict rules about who can be a plaintiff in a defamation action like this. The identity of the aspiring plaintiff matters. First, let's eliminate UVA. The university is a public university, and therefore it is a governmental entity. The Supreme Court has been clear on the issue of libelous statements about the government : The government can not sue for defamation. There is no such cause of action in American jurisprudence. Now the fraternities, starting with Phi Kappa Psi. A fraternity is not an individual, but a group. A plaintiff in a defamation case must show that the statements were ``of or concerning'' the plaintiff. It sounds obvious, but if you're going to say a statement hurt you, you have to prove the statement actually was about you to begin with. When the statements are about a group without naming an individual, it's hard to say the statement is ``concerning'' the individual -- and groups generally can not sue. For example, you can be sued if you call a specific lawyer a thief, but that same person can not sue you if you simply call all lawyers thieves. Defamatory statements about a group are therefore not actionable by the group's individual members, for the most part. Like all rules, however, there are exceptions. If the defamatory language is about ``a comparatively small group of persons and the defamatory part is easily imputed against all members of the small group, an individual member may sue.'' If I said, ``The 1980 Philadelphia Phillies infielders were a bunch of criminals'' ( they weren't ), the individual players could sue, because that mean statement is clearly about certain persons -- if I said that -- which I didn't. Phi Kappa Psi would likely argue that the ``small group'' exception fits it perfectly : Even if the individual members were not identified by name, the defamatory story has been imputed directly to individual members, who have suffered by their association with the group. On the other hand, Rolling Stone's lawyers would likely argue that the group is so large and fluid ( after all, the membership changes somewhat every year ), that even though the fraternity's reputation is tarnished, the members have suffered no individualized injury. As for the other fraternities on campus but not implicated in the story, that's likely a group that moves from the small category to large, and the members of Greek life generally will have a harder time bringing a lawsuit. Lawyers will tell you that a libel suit is one of those things that citizens often threaten each other with on Facebook, but that such cases are rarely actually filed. That's because a plaintiff usually has to show some kind of financial harm. So if your Aunt Edna calls you a loser on Twitter, you're going to have to spend money on an expert to explain to a jury how that actually damaged you financially. And since most of the people who waste time threatening each other with defamation suits on Facebook live in their moms' basements and are ``between jobs,'' these are not the kind of people who have money or reputation to damage in the first place. The UVA situation is not your run-of-the-mill defamation case. The university won't be able to sue, but if the members of the fraternity can get past some of the preliminary hurdles of a defamation claim, and they can make a tangible case for damages, then this could be one of those rare successful defamation cases.
( CNN ) The classic video game ``Space Invaders'' was developed in Japan back in the late 1970's -- and now their real-life counterparts are the topic of an earnest political discussion in Japan's corridors of power. Luckily, Japanese can sleep soundly in their beds tonight as the government's top military official earnestly revealed that the country's Air Self Defense Force ( ASDF ) had never encountered an extraterrestrial unidentified flying object. Responding to a query from flamboyant former wrestler-turned-lawmaker Antonio Inoki, Defense Minister Gen Nakatani told the Diet, Japan's parliament, that his jets had, to date, never come across any UFOs from outer space. ``When the Air Self Defense Force detects indications of an unidentified flying object that could violate our country's airspace, it scrambles fighter jets if necessary and makes visual observation,'' Nakatani said. He continued : ``They sometimes find birds or flying objects other than aircraft but I don't know of a case of finding an unidentified flying object believed to have come over from anywhere other than Earth.''. Inoki has appeared in the U.S.-based WWE -- which describes him as ``among the most respected men in sports-entertainment'' -- and is the founder of the New Japan Pro Wrestling organization. He entered Japan's Upper House for a second stint in politics in 2013. He also famously fought Muhammad Ali in 1976, in one of the first-ever mixed-discipline matches, which would later pave the way for today's wildly popular Mixed Martial Arts contests. Before his return to politics he was a regular fixture on Japanese TV variety shows and has promoted a slew of products, from hot sauce to banks. The maverick politician also traveled to Iraq in 1990 to try to secure the release of Japanese hostages, and has more recently attempted to replicate former NBA star Dennis Rodman's ``basketball diplomacy'' by staging a wrestling tournament in North Korea. He reportedly converted to Islam in the 1990s, although he says he practices both Islam and Buddhism. The lawmaker, who is universally known in Japan for his colossal chin and once-ever-present red scarf -- these days often replaced with a red necktie -- as much as for his political achievements, had asked a Upper House Budget Committee meeting if aircraft were ever scrambled to meet extraterrestrial threats, and if research was being done into alien visitors, prompting Nakatani's response. Inoki also claims to have seen a UFO with his own eyes, but admitted that he didn't know personally if aliens existed. The exchange wasn't the first time Japanese politicians have discussed the implications of visitors from another planet. In 2007 then-Defense Minister Shigeru Ishiba pondered the legal ramifications, under Japan's pacifist constitution, of a defense against an invasion from outer space. READ MORE : Japan unveils Izumo, its largest warship since World War II.
( CNN ) The FBI has confirmed that one of its most wanted terrorists, the Malaysian bomb maker known as Marwan, was killed in an otherwise disastrous raid in the Philippines in January. Marwan, whose real name is Zulkifli bin Hir, was believed by the FBI to a member of southeast Asian terror group Jemaah Islamiyah's central command. The FBI said in February that a DNA sample -- understood to be from a severed finger -- taken from a man killed in a raid in the southern Philippines showed a link with a known relative of Marwan. But the FBI now says tests have confirmed that the dead man was the wanted Islamic extremist. ``After a thorough review of forensic data and information obtained from our Philippine law enforcement partners, the FBI has assessed that terrorism subject, Zulkifli Abdhir.. is deceased and has been removed from the FBI's list of Most Wanted Terrorists,'' David Bowdich, assistant director in charge of the FBI's Los Angeles field office, told CNN in a statement. The FBI had been offering a $ 5 million reward for information leading to Marwan's capture in the wake of his 2007 indictment on terror charges in a California court. It accused him of being a supplier of IEDs to terrorist organizations, and having conducted bomb making training for terror groups, including the Philippines-based Abu Sayyaf. Marwan had previously been falsely reported dead after a raid by Philippine security forces in 2012. The Philippines has been fighting an insurgency in the predominantly Muslim south for years, and last year signed a peace agreement with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front ( MILF ), the largest rebel group in the region. But in January it launched a surprise raid in pursuit of Marwan at Mamapasono, in the southern province of Maguindanao. The mission went disastrously awry. Forty-four members of the police's elite Special Action Force ( SAF ) unit were killed in the assault, targeting an area controlled by the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters ( BIFF ) -- a hardline splinter group which has rejected the peace deal with the Philippines government. According to a report released by the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict ( IPAC ) last month, the BIFF faction sheltering Marwan had sworn allegiance to ISIS. In the immediate aftermath of the assault, the SAF company charged with executing Marwan came under fire, before another SAF company stationed in nearby MILF territory as a ``blocking force'' became engaged in an eight-hour firefight with MILF fighters. According to the IPAC report, the SAF ``blocking'' company eventually ran out of ammunition and only one of their number survived,. Eighteen MILF fighters were killed and a number of BIFF fighters may also died. The clash shattered a three-year ceasefire with the MILF, authorities said. A national day of mourning was declared as the men were laid to rest. Bowdich expressed the FBI's ``sincere condolences to the brave officers of the Special Action Force who lost their lives while attempting to apprehend this dangerous fugitive.''. While an SAF superintendent said at a eulogy for the fallen commandos that their sacrifice had been worth it, controversy has dogged the botched mission in the Philippines. The IPAC report argued that the ``single-minded focus'' of authorities on killing Marwan has threatened the peace agreement with the MILF, which is yet to cross the final hurdle of being passed into law by the Philippines Congress. ``The best chance the southern Philippines has ever had for peace may now be in jeopardy,'' read the report, which argued that the Mamapasano fiasco was the result of a misguided emphasis on killing Marwan. The report argued that, although Marwan had aided terror attacks and provided funds and equipment to MILF and Abu Sayyaf, he was not ``the master bomber that his reputation suggested.''. Yet for the Philippines authorities and their U.S. allies, killing Marwan had become such a priority that security forces bypassed the mechanisms that had been established to alert the MILF to such operations, for fear of word leaking to their target. The report quoted an anonymous Indonesian associate of Marwan's who described the Malaysian as ``a little snake who has been blown up into a dragon.''. READ MORE : Dozens of Philippine police killed in raid on `high value' bomb makers. READ MORE : Philippines honors 44 slain commandos with day of mourning. CNN's Arlene Samson-Espiritu and Kathy Quiano contributed to this report.
( CNN ) One of Tokyo's most prominent districts has taken a small, but potentially significant step to recognizing same-sex unions in Japan. The government of Shibuya ward, one of the capital's most famous shopping and trendy entertainment districts, passed ordinance on Wednesday paving the way for ``partnership certificates'' for same-sex couples, allowing them some of the rights of married heterosexual couples. Same-sex partners who are registered with the district's ward office will be able to hold visitation rights in hospitals and co-sign tenancy agreements. Other advantages that heterosexual married couples enjoy, such as joint filing of taxes, are controlled by the federal government and are outside the remit of individual municipalities. The measure was proposed in February by Shibuya's mayor, Toshitake Kuwahara. While the certificates will not be issued until later in the summer and are not legally binding, proponents of marriage equality in socially conservative Japan say that the ward's decision is a step in the right direction. ``It is not a marriage license and advantages will be limited but still better than nothing,'' Gon Matsunaka, a gay rights activist, told CNN. While Shibuya's decision does not yet equate to heterosexual marriage, the hope is that the move will be the beginnings of promoting marriage equality for gay communities. ``What is important for the LGBT ( lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender ) community in Shibuya is the ruling will make us visible in society,'' Matsunaka said. ``It could be a strong driver for Shibuya citizens to learn and know what kind of problems LGBT people are facing.''. Taiga Ishikawa, Tokyo councillor and the first male gay local assembly member in Japan, told CNN the ordinance was a ``big first step for the protection of human rights.''. He called the decision ``happy'' but said that it must go alongside education about alternative lifestyles. He said that the most important part of today's announcement is that it ``should be actually put into practice, as should education for understanding ( LGBT individuals ) especially they suffer as they find out their sexuality when they are young.''. Neighboring Setagaya ward has indicated that it would look into following Shibuya's lead. However, former councilor Ishikawa cautioned against taking the movement's momentum for granted. ``To realize equal rights for gay couples, a national law has to be made,'' he said. While outright discrimination against the LGBT community is rare in Japan, its effects can be hidden and gay people often find themselves at a disadvantage. Many hide their sexuality from their employers, co-workers, families and friends. But the tide may be turning. A recent poll found that a slight majority at 52.4 % oppose gay marriage, but support amongst young adults in their 20s and 30s is as high as 70 %. An editorial in the Asahi Shimbun newspaper, which commissioned the poll, welcomed the Shibuya decision, calling it ``a bold and important step forward.''. Only traditional marriages are recognized under Japan's constitution, but the wording is vague enough to open it to interpretation, according to Mari Miura, a professor of gender and politics at Sophia University in Tokyo. ``The constitution does not rule out same-sex marriage, so an interpretation can be made that it is constitutional,'' Miura told Bloomberg Business. While Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party ``don't like the idea of same-sex marriage, but at the same time the issue is gaining momentum.''. Conservative groups were vocal in their opposition, with one, known as the Network Pushing for Normalization of Education, telling the Japan Times that granting same-sex couples the same rights as all other Japanese citizens would degrade the ``familial system and practice that heterosexual unions have long preserved in human history.''. While Shibuya's registration system will be a first for Japan, Yodogawa ward in the western Japanese city of Osaka was the first in the nation to recognize and support the LGBT community. In 2013 the ward government pledged to give consideration to the issues that the community faced, and to train staff to accommodate needs specific to LGBT individuals. Journalist Chie Kobayashi contributed reporting from Tokyo.
( CNN ) Film director David Lynch has confirmed he will no longer direct the revival of ``Twin Peaks'' -- a cult 1990s television show that was set to return in 2016. The offbeat TV series, created by Lynch and Mark Frost, featured a quirky FBI agent who went to the Pacific Northwest town of Twin Peaks to investigate the mysterious murder of a high school girl named Laura Palmer. The groundbreaking series is considered one of the most influential shows in television history. Lynch broke the news about his departure in a series of tweets, saying that the show's third season will continue without him. He said he felt the network was not offering enough money to produce the show ``the way it needed to be done.''. Lynch also wrote that he had personally called the actors over the weekend to let them know he would no longer be directing. Showtime Network, which will air the nine-episode comeback, released a statement saying they were ``saddened'' by Lynch's decision. ``We were saddened to read David Lynch's statement today since we believed we were working towards solutions with David and his reps on the few remaining deal points,'' read the statement. ``Showtime also loves the world of Twin Peaks and we continue to hold out hope that we can bring it back in all its glory with both of its extraordinary creators, David Lynch and Mark Frost, at its helm.''. Showtime announced they would produce a third season in October last year. Actor Kyle MacLachlan, who played the coffee-obsessed FBI agent Dale Cooper in the original series, had confirmed he would reprise the lead role for the new season.
( CNN ) A University of Kentucky basketball player is apologizing for the ``poor choice of words'' he muttered under his breath after the team's stunning loss to Wisconsin on Saturday. As a deflated panel of Wildcats fielded a reporter's question about Wisconsin standout Frank Kaminsky, a hot mic picked up Kentucky guard Andrew Harrison saying of Kaminsky, ``F**k that ( N-word ).''. Harrison, who is is black, said his words were ``in jest,'' and that he meant no disrespect to Kaminsky, who is white. ``First I want to apologize for my poor choice of words used in jest towards a player I respect and know,'' Harrison tweeted. ``When I realized how this could be perceived I immediately called big frank to apologize and let him know I didn't mean any disrespect.''. Kaminsky -- the 2015 Associated Press player of the year -- said Sunday that he was ``over it.''. ``He reached out to me. We talked about it. -LSB- I'm -RSB- Over it,'' he said. ``Nothing needs to be made out of it.''. Harrison said he wished Kaminsky well in Monday's national title game against Duke. ``We had a good conversation, and I wished him good luck in the championship game Monday.''. CNN reached out to Kentucky for comment on Sunday but did not hear back. Kentucky vs. Wisconsin nets biggest Final Four ratings in 22 years.
Hong Kong ( CNN ) Six people were hurt after an explosion at a controversial chemical plant in China's southeastern Fujian province sparked a huge fire, provincial authorities told state media. The plant, located in Zhangzhou city, produces paraxylene ( PX ), a reportedly carcinogenic chemical used in the production of polyester films and fabrics. The blast occurred at an oil storage facility Monday night after an oil leak, though local media has not reported any toxic chemical spill. Five out of six people were injured by broken glass and have been sent to the hospital for treatment, Xinhua news agency reported. More than 600 firefighters were sent to battle the blaze and the fire is now under control, the Zhangzhou fire department wrote on their official microblogging account Tuesday morning. Residents living close to the plant had heard the explosion and took to Weibo to post photos of the fire. One user wrote that he heard a loud blast and felt slight tremors. The plant was hit by another explosion in July 2013, although there were no reports of casualties or toxic leaks at the time. Though demonstrations are illegal in China, the construction of PX plants has sparked protests, which have occasionally turned violent, in several cities in recent years. The Zhangzhou plant was slated for Xiamen -- a densely populated city in the southeast of the country. However, it provoked an angry backlash in 2007 due to pollution concerns and prompted the local government to relocate the factory to its current, more remote location.
( CNN ) The presence of a harmful pesticide at a luxury villa in the U.S. Virgin Islands may have resulted in the illness of a Delaware family, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Friday. Paramedics were called last week to a rented villa at the Sirenusa resort in St. John after the family of four fell ill. They had rented the villa from March 14 to March 22, and were later hospitalized. The illness was reported to the EPA on March 20. ``Our preliminary results do show that there was a presence of methyl bromide in the unit where the family was staying,'' said Elias Rodriguez, an EPA spokesman. Exposure to methyl bromide can result in serious health effects, including central nervous system and respiratory system damage, according to the EPA. The use of the pesticide is restricted in the United States because of its acute toxicity. It's not allowed to be used indoors. Only certified professionals are permitted to use it in certain agricultural settings. ``It's an ongoing investigation ; we're still on the island doing our assessment,'' Rodriguez said. ``We have been doing different types of air sampling and wipe sampling.''. Final test results were expected next week. The EPA is working with local government agencies to investigate whether the family was made ill after a fumigation at the resort on March 18 and whether any environmental regulations or laws were violated. ``Pesticides can be very toxic, and it is critically important that they be applied properly and used only as approved by EPA,'' said Judith A. Enck, a regional administrator for the EPA. ``The EPA is actively working to determine how this happened and will make sure steps are taken to prevent this from happening to others at these vacation apartments or elsewhere.''. Depending on the season, the luxury villa where the family stayed rents between $ 550 and $ 1,200 per night. Sea Glass Vacations, which acts as a rental agent for several units at Sirenusa, said that the unit directly below the one where the family stayed was recently treated for pests, but that their unit was not treated. The company said it licensed an outside company, Terminix, for the pest control services. ``Sea Glass Vacations does not treat the units it manages for pests but instead relies on licensed professionals for pest control services,'' the company said in a statement. The U.S. Department of Justice has initiated a criminal investigation into the matter, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing made Monday by ServiceMaster Global Holdings, the parent company of Terminix. In an email to CNN, a spokesman for Terminix wrote that the company is ``committed to performing all work.. in a manner that is safe for our customers, employees, the public and the environment'' and is ``looking into this matter internally, and cooperating with authorities.''. ``We're thinking about the family, and we join the community in wishing them a speedy recovery,'' Terminix wrote. James Maron, an attorney who has been a spokesman for the family, has not responded to requests for comment. The SEC filing described the injuries to the family members as ``serious.''
( CNN ) When I was elected to the Kentucky State Senate in 1967, I became the first woman and the first person of color to serve in the body. Five decades later, I find it almost unfathomable that a politician from my own state is attempting to launch his presidential campaign on a record that includes questioning landmark voting rights and civil rights legislation. But that is what Rand Paul, who today declared he's running for president of the United States, is doing. His campaign team told reporters last week that his campaign announcement message would be about ``expanding the Republican Party'' -- a message of inclusion. But those of us listening today who he is hoping to include, heard nothing more than hype. I'm not buying it. Since coming to the U.S. Senate, Paul has tried to sell himself as a different type of Republican. He's tried to brand himself as the GOP's minority outreach candidate. The problem for Paul, and the GOP at large, is that they don't back up their words with their policies. Yes, it's about time that Republicans started seriously considering the fact that black voters are an important piece of the electoral puzzle. But they can't actually appeal to the community unless they have a real commitment to the issues facing minority communities. A quick survey of Sen. Paul's positions makes clear that he does not. Paul kicked off his announcement speech in Louisville by declaring ``I have a message that is loud and clear : We have come to take our country back.'' I have no doubt that under Paul's leadership, he would indeed take our country back -- in the wrong direction -- way back to a time when we were debating the Civil Rights Act -- which Paul has done since landing on the national stage ; when there was no Department of Education -- a department he thinks ``should be done away with ;'' when women didn't have choices -- choices Paul seeks to limit in Washington ; when DREAMers weren't protected from deportation -- protections Paul currently opposes. In his inept speaking engagements at historically black colleges and universities, he has come across as condescending and lacking basic cultural competency. But Paul has also questioned the Civil Rights Act, and even claimed that private business owners have a right to discriminate. When asked about the need for a more robust Voting Rights Act following the Supreme Court's dismantling of the law, Paul dismissively remarked, ``We have an African-American President.''. When President Obama stood with John Lewis and other veterans of the civil rights movement in front of the Edmund Pettus Bridge last month to mark the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday, he inspired us all by saying : ``With effort, we can roll back poverty and the roadblocks to opportunity.. With effort, we can protect the foundation stone of our democracy for which so many marched across this bridge -- and that is the right to vote.''. America is better -- and we solve more problems -- with more democracy, not less. Unfortunately Rand Paul has demonstrated that he disagree with that basic principle. Paul tried once again from that stage in Louisville to fashion himself as the one member of his party courageous enough to try to broaden Republican appeal to constituencies they ignore year after year. But his record makes it very clear that his views are outdated, outside of the mainstream, and disqualifying for a man who wants to lead our country. The American people deserve a leader who won't disrespect their intelligence, who won't pander to them when it's convenient, and who won't work to dismantle the progress we have made over the last five decades. What I heard today, didn't change the facts about Rand Paul's record. The American people deserve better than Rand Paul.
( CNN ) The United States Department of Justice has named a new defendant in the war on drugs, and the charges are serious indeed. A 15-count indictment filed in federal court in California bristles with accusations of conspiracies, transporting prescription pharmaceuticals dispensed with illegal prescriptions, violations of the Controlled Substances Act, misbranding charges, and money laundering charges. Who is this menace to society ?. FedEx. Yes, the courier delivery service. Wait, can companies even be charged with crimes ? Where would a FedEx be incarcerated ? Is there a corporate Shawshank Prison ? How does one fit a company for a prison jumpsuit ?. It turns out a corporation can indeed be prosecuted like a person. It's a practice the Supreme Court has approved of for over a century. In fact, in many ways they are easier to prosecute than people. Corporations don't have all the same inconvenient constitutional rights as citizens accused of crimes. Imprisoning convicted citizens is expensive, but corporate convictions, on the other hand, turn tidy profits for the U.S. government, with zero prison overhead. Even if corporations can be held criminally liable, should a courier service like FedEx be held liable for ``possessing'' what bad guys may send through the service ?. The answer, according to FedEx, is not just ``No,'' but a ``No'' so conclusive that this case should never see a courtroom. The company maintains that it is innocent. It has a point. ``Possession'' is an elusive concept. When it comes to drugs, the law recognizes two kinds of possession : actual and constructive. Actual possession is when you have physical control over the contraband. When you have a gun in your hand or drugs in your pocket, you ``actually'' possess those things. The somewhat hazier concept of ``constructive possession'' means you can ``possess'' something without even having it on your person, as long as you have ownership, dominion or control over the contraband or the property where it is found. For example, the government would argue that while you may not have actual possession of the 5,000 OxyContin pills in the trunk of your car parked in your driveway, you ``constructively'' possessed them. Conversely, sometimes you can be holding something in your hand or have it in your vehicle, but not ``possess'' it either actually or constructively, in the eyes of the law. Such is the case with couriers who routinely drive to your home, walk up to your door and hand you a package, completely ignorant about what is inside it. It's hard to argue the UPS guy intentionally ``possessed'' your subscription to porno mags, in their nondescript brown packaging. That is the idea behind the ``common carrier'' exception to possession, and a large part of FedEx's compelling legal argument. A ``common carrier'' is one who offers its services to members of the public -- without much discretion -- and is engaged in the business of transporting persons or property for compensation. The public policy reasons behind ``common carrier'' exemptions make sense ; the industry simply couldn't function if every driver, courier and handler who touches a valid shipment of OxyContin had to obtain a prescription for opiates to be legally allowed to deliver it to your front door. That would lead to an absurd result. That's why the Controlled Substances Act and the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act allow common carriers to lawfully possess controlled substances, so long as it is in the usual course of their business. Of course, this is not a permission slip for drug runners to avoid liability by calling themselves ``common carriers.'' That's why the ``usual course of business'' language acts as an additional safety measure. In court papers, FedEx's lawyers offer the example of an airline whose sole activity was flying controlled substances from Jamaica to Miami. This would not be acting in the usual course of business of a common carrier, since this imaginary airline is not offering its services to the public, generally. On the other hand, FedEx argues that it is indeed a common carrier, performing the normal duties of a common carrier, because ( a ) it is engaged in the business of transportation of property and ( b ) it offers its services to the public generally. It's hard to imagine extending liability to common carriers for possession of contraband. Does this mean a Greyhound bus driver becomes liable for marijuana possessed by a passenger ? The bus driver would argue he has no reason to know if a particular passenger is carrying drugs. But if the guy boards the bus with a Grateful Dead T-shirt and a set of bongos, shouldn't the driver at least have a hunch ? That seems dangerously close to profiling. Is this another illogical straw man argument ? Maybe. Obviously, the Department of Justice disagrees, which is why it has brought this criminal prosecution. According to the indictment, from at least as early as 2004, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Food and Drug Administration, and members of Congress put FedEx on notice that illegal Internet pharmacies were using its shipping services to distribute controlled substances and prescription drugs in violation of the Controlled Substances Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and numerous state laws. The indictment alleges that as early as 2004, FedEx knew that it was delivering drugs to dealers and addicts. FedEx's couriers in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia expressed safety concerns that were circulated to FedEx senior management. The DOJ is making the argument that even though FedEx carries and delivers whatever is handed to it by the public, FedEx knew or should have known in specific instances that it was involving itself in suspicious drug activity. It raises a larger question, though : Why do we prosecute inanimate objects that we can't even incarcerate ? The answer is the same reason that the drug dealers deal drugs, and drug smugglers smuggle them : Money. Power. The government in these cases gets to impose its will and policy upon large corporations -- in this case, it would be to force FedEx to help law enforcement in policing shady pharmaceutical transportation. The government also gets to extract gargantuan sums of money from corporations in ``deferred prosecution agreements.''. The reason you don't see a lot of corporate trials is because most companies prefer to enter into such agreements ; for a company, a public prosecution alone would be tantamount to a death sentence, whether or not it's found guilty. Still, every defense attorney would love to offer the option to his or her human clients of avoiding felony conviction and a potential life sentence -- by agreeing to pay some fines. Don't get me wrong : I'm all about prosecuting the black market, especially if that means prosecuting the guys who send us those spam emails to our work accounts with ``V1AGRA'' in the subject line, for our co-workers to see while we go to the bathroom. I want those guys locked up for sure. I'm just not sure that FedEx has anything to do with the kingpins of the ``FR33 CYALIS'' email campaign. The DOJ's underlying intentions are noble enough -- this is an attack on the supply line of the illegal drug market by attacking the actual supply chain. It makes good strategic sense. It might seem like good financial sense in the short run, with the millions in fines extracted from corporations, but that money has to come from somewhere. It's just a matter of time before that trickles down to job cuts and less leg room on our flights. It probably doesn't make good legal sense either. Yes, we have been treating corporations as fictional ``persons'' for centuries in some ways -- but it's silly to treat them as persons in all ways. FedEx has a strong argument for dismissal in this case, but even if not, it won't be swapping its logo orange for prison orange anytime soon.
( CNN ) This is the end. Beautiful friend, the end. For the 1960s, the end arrived with -- depending on your ideals and your tribe -- either the Rolling Stones' Altamont fiasco in December 1969, the Kent State shootings in May 1970 or Richard Nixon's 1972 re-election. For ``Mad Men,'' the ``end of an era,'' as its slogan has it, begins Sunday. Over the past eight years, the show about a 1960s advertising agency and its collision with changing times has become part of the national fabric, if never a huge ratings hit. Stores have created fashion lines inspired by the show ; there have been ``Mad Men'' cocktails and ``Mad Men'' museum exhibits and even ``Mad Men'' presidential references. Don Draper, the creative director played by Jon Hamm, has become a symbol of the times -- his and, sometimes, ours. Its subjects have taken the show to heart. In March, a ``Mad Men'' bench was unveiled in front of New York's Time & Life Building, where the fictional firm of Sterling Cooper & Partners has its headquarters. The end of a TV series brings with it some risk. ``The Sopranos,'' ``Mad Men'' creator Matthew Weiner's former employer, divided fans with its famous cut-to-black finale. On the other hand, ``Mad Men's'' former AMC stablemate, ``Breaking Bad,'' was saluted for an almost perfect landing. Speaking of landings : The last season -- technically, the first half of season 7 -- ended with the moon landing in July 1969. Though Weiner and his cast have been typically tight-lipped -- Weiner even hid the finale from his cast at first -- it's reasonable to assume the new season will pick up soon afterward. What's going to happen ? Here are some educated guesses. With the'60s screaming towards their conclusion, ``Mad Men'' probably won't jump ahead much. The latter half of 1969 included the Manson murders, the Woodstock festival, a New York mayoral campaign and the Vietnam War moratorium demonstrations -- plenty of fodder for the characters to interact with, if only tangentially. Who knows ? The show might even mention the Miracle Mets. It would be a nice way to acknowledge the agency's late Lane Pryce. Of course, Weiner might have a different idea ; he's from Baltimore. ``Mad Men'' is generally a show about disintegration, reflective of the'60s themselves. The old orders are falling apart : white-shoe WASP firms like Sterling Cooper giving way to the ethnic pace-setters such as Doyle Dane Bernbach ; grimy New York replaced by sunny Los Angeles ; the ``Good War'' generation butting heads with the ``Make Love, Not War'' cohort ; vacuum tubes and ledger books being displaced by a sleek, solid-state IBM world. It's all an ad agency can do to keep up. Last season saw plenty of intraoffice turmoil, thanks to the ill-fitting merger between Sterling Cooper and former rival Cutler Gleason and Chaough. Though the agency survived, it's now without Bert Cooper ( Robert Morse ) and under the ownership of ( real-life ) Madison Avenue titan McCann Erickson. That's not a recipe for long-term survival, and expect a number of longtime characters -- Ken Cosgrove ( Aaron Staton ), Harry Crane ( Rich Sommer ) and perhaps even Joan Harris ( Christina Hendricks ) -- to look for an exit. Roger Sterling -- the wisecracking executive played by John Slattery -- might find an exit as well, but not one he's anticipating. He's suffered two heart attacks. He drinks to excess. He's never grown up. Bet on a sudden and shocking departure. On the other hand, Peggy Olson's star has continued to rise ( much like one of the character's models, advertising wunderkind Mary Wells Lawrence ). She left Sterling Cooper once ; indeed, she wouldn't have returned if her new agency hadn't merged with her old one. If Olson, played by Elisabeth Moss, bolts the firm, it will probably be to head her own agency -- and possibly get married. That is, if she's still interested in such an old-fashioned tradition. In recent seasons, Don's ex-wife, Betty ( January Jones ), has lost herself amid all the turmoil. She sees herself through the eyes of her spouses, and though husband Henry Francis ( Christopher Stanley ) has been far more supportive than Don, he's a busy man. And Sally, Don's daughter ( Kiernan Shipka ), is proving to be a handful. On the one hand, she's obviously bright ; on the other, she's a teenager and starting to rebel. In recent seasons she's run away and started sneaking cigarettes, and she's always fighting with her mother. You could see her hitchhiking to Woodstock, or at least dropping out of school. Anything's possible, but given all that the character has been through -- divorces, affairs, office politics, morose late-night rides with Glen Bishop -- it's a bit on the nose, isn't it ?. Instead, try this : It's April 1, 1970. Richard Nixon is signing legislation banning cigarette ads on radio and television, reminding Don of the day 10 years earlier when he came up with the Lucky Strike campaign that began the series. No fool, he had seen this day coming years before. He'll fix himself a drink, ponder buying an avocado-colored refrigerator, clean out his ashtray and leave the show the way he arrived : on top of the zeitgeist, unable to accept his past and utterly, inscrutably alone.
( CNN ) Comedian Chris Rock made light of racial disparities in police treatment of whites and blacks with a tongue-in-cheek guide to not being beaten by the police. He encapsulated the frustration and grief caused by a New York grand jury's decision not to indict a white police officer in the death of a black man with a simple tweet : ``This one was on film.''. Now, he's stirring things up again with a series of tweets documenting three traffic stops in seven weeks. ``Stopped by the cops again wish me luck,'' he posted early Tuesday, along with a photo showing him behind the wheel of a car with what looks like blue police lights in the background. He posted similar photos in February. Many African-Americans have long bemoaned the phenomenon of being pulled over for no apparent reason, calling it ``driving while black.'' Blacks are about 30 % more likely to be pulled over by police than whites, according to figures reported by the Bureau of Justice Statistics in 2013. And in amid increased conversation over race and policing after the high-profile deaths last year of Eric Garner in New York and Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, the issue is even more sensitive. Rock hasn't commented on the tweets and didn't say how the police stop turned out. He got lots of support on Twitter. ``My heart legit dropped, no kidding,'' one Twitter fan posted. Many praised him for documenting the stops. Some accused him of race-baiting. But one bit of advice in particular lit up social media. Actor Isaiah Washington urged Rock to'' #Adapt'' to avoid racial profiling. ``I sold my $ 90,000.00 Mercedes G500 and bought 3 Prius's, because I got tired of being pulled over by Police,'' Washington tweeted. Some saw that as a sell-out, saying Rock shouldn't have to take steps others might not have to as a way to avoid being pulled over. ``Let me guess. you also make sure your pants are pulled up as well ?.'' Twitter user YeshaCallahan posted. Appearing on CNN, Washington defended the tweet, saying he wanted to ``excite a conversation.''. Years ago, Rock filmed a sketch for his ``Chris Rock'' show on HBO in which he detailed ways to avoid being beaten by police as a black man. Besides obeying the law, he suggested bringing a white friend along for the ride. He did just that last year in a segment of ``Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee'' with Jerry Seinfeld. The two chat as Seinfeld drives an orange Lamborghini. And what happened ?. They get pulled over after Seinfeld goes a bit heavy on the gas. ``Here's the crazy thing,'' Rock tells Seinfeld as the police officer stops the duo. ``If you weren't here, I'd be scared.''
( CNN ) Boston native Mark Wahlberg will star in a film about the Boston Marathon bombing and the manhunt that followed, Deadline reported Wednesday. Wahlberg's film, to be titled ``Patriots' Day,'' is being produced by CBS Films, which linked to the Deadline article from its website. According to Deadline, Wahlberg is hoping to play Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis, who retired after the attack in 2013. The film will be told from Davis' point of view. The film will feature material researched and shot by CBS Films' corporate sibling, the CBS News program ``60 Minutes.''. Wahlberg is also a producer of the film. ``Patriots' Day'' is the second film related to the Boston bombing to be announced. Fox announced in November that it will be making a film called ``Boston Strong'' about the event.
( CNN ) What do we have for the contestant on ``The Price Is Right'' ?. A brand-new car !. Whoops. That wasn't supposed to happen. On Thursday's edition of the popular game show, model Manuela Arbelaez accidentally revealed the correct answer to a guessing game for a new Hyundai Sonata. Host Drew Carey couldn't stop laughing. ``Congratulations ! Manuela just gave you a car !'' he exulted. Arbelaez was mortified, attempting to hide behind the display. But everything turned out OK, she tweeted later. It's been a busy week for ``The Price Is Right.'' On Wednesday, former host Bob Barker, 91, showed up to run his old show.
( CNN ) One hundred and forty-seven victims. Many more families affected. Even more broken hopes and dreams. As Kenyans mourned those killed last week in one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in the nation, citizens used social media to share the victims' stories, hopes and dreams. Using the hashtag # 147notjustanumber -- a reference to the number of people, mostly students, killed at Garissa University College on Thursday -- Kenyans tweeted pictures of the victims in happier times. Kenyan authorities have not released a list of the victims. The posts provided heart-wrenching details on the victims, including one about an elderly man whose dreams died with his son. He had reportedly taken a loan to educate him at the university, where he was killed by Al-Shabaab terrorists. The attack in Kenya killed 142 students, three security officers and two university security personnel, and was the nation's deadliest since the bombing of the U.S. Embassy in 1998. Kenyan churches mourned the dead during Easter services Sunday as armed guards protected the congregations. In emotional services nationwide, churchgoers wept as they paid tribute to the victims of the massacre. The gunmen who attacked the university in the predawn hours separated Muslims from Christians and killed the latter. The extremist group has also killed Muslims in recent attacks. The Interior Ministry has identified one of the attackers killed by security forces as the son of a government official. The father of suspect Abdirahim Abdullahi is a chief in Mandera and had reported his son missing, officials said. The Islamist extremist group is based in Somalia, but it hasn't confined its terrorism to the nation that shares a border with Kenya. In 2013, militants attacked Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall, killing nearly 70 people.
Marseille, France ( CNN ) Investigators have collected all the main evidence from the site where Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed, a French national police official told CNN on Saturday. Investigators are not expected to return to the crash site, said Capt. Yves Naffrechoux of the High Mountain Gendarmerie. The plane crashed March 24 in rugged terrain of the Alps about 6 miles ( 10 kilometers ) from the town of Seyne-les-Alpes. ``All the police investigators have left the ( Germanwings ) crash site,'' he said. ``There is only a private security company ensuring security around the crash site so that no one can go there.''. The security firm will guard the site until the remaining debris is collected and taken to secure locations for further analysis, if necessary, he said. The flight data recorder, or ``black box,'' was found Thursday by a member of the recovery team. The cockpit voice recorder was found days after the crash. In addition, out of more than 2,000 DNA samples collected from the crash site, lab workers have isolated 150 DNA profiles, said Brice Robin, Marseilles prosecutor. The crash killed all 150 people on board. Brice Robin, Marseilles prosecutor, said authorities have found 470 personnel effects at the site. That number includes 40 cell phones, though all those were badly damaged. Robin cast doubt that any useful information could be retrieved from those phones, given their condition. Authorities say the flight's co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, locked the captain out of the cockpit and engineered the plane's demise. Initial tests on the flight data recorder show that Lubitz purposely used the controls to speed up the plane's descent, according to the French air accident investigation agency, the BEA. It also has emerged that Lubitz had battled depression years before he took the controls of Flight 9525 and that he had concealed from his employer recent medical leave notes saying he was unfit for work. Calls for crash avoidance technology. CNN's Margot Haddad reported from Marseille, and Greg Botelho wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Laura Smith-Spark contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Authorities identified and charged a man Monday in connection with the discovery of human remains in a duffel bag in Cambridge, Massachusetts, over the weekend. Carlos Colina, 32, was arraigned on charges of assault and battery causing serious bodily injury and improper disposal of a body, the Middlesex District Attorney's Office said in a statement. ``This was a gruesome discovery,'' said District Attorney Marian Ryan. ``Detectives are continuing to analyze evidence and awaiting information from the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner so that we may determine if additional charges are warranted.''. Police were notified Saturday morning about a suspicious item along a walkway in Cambridge. Officers arrived at the scene, opened a duffel bag and found human remains. After that discovery, police say, a surveillance video led them to an apartment building, where more body parts were discovered in a common area. That location is near the Cambridge Police Department headquarters. The remains at both locations belonged to the same victim, identified Monday as Jonathan Camilien, 26. Camilien and Colina knew each other, according to authorities. The next scheduled hearing in the case is set for April 14. CNN's Andreas Preuss contributed to this report.
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates ( CNN ) Lost luggage after a long flight is a common, frustrating occurrence of modern air travel. And sometimes, airlines lose things that are irreplaceable. American Jennifer Stewart says she was devastated to learn that Etihad Airways lost her most important baggage following a recent trip from Abu Dhabi to New York City : her 2-year-old pet cat, Felix. Stewart said that she and her husband, Joseph Naaman, booked Felix on their Etihad Airways flight from the United Arab Emirates to New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport on April 1. Shortly after the plane arrived in New York that evening, Felix went missing somewhere on the grounds of Kennedy Airport, according to Etihad Airways. Felix was able to get loose, Stewart said she believes, because the cat's plastic carrier was badly damaged at some point either during the flight or the transfer from the airplane to the pickup area. Stewart said a cargo manager called the couple to an office after they landed at Kennedy last week and notified them that their cat's carrier had been crushed. Photographs taken by Stewart showed a large hole in the top of the cat's carrier. At least one of the corners of the case appeared partially collapsed. Nearly one week later, Felix remains missing. ``For them to take a cat and ship him like he was cargo, not a live animal, makes me sick,'' Stewart said. ``You trust that people care and are doing the job well, and then this happens.''. A representative for Etihad Airways told CNN that that the loss of pets during air travel is ``extremely rare.'' The airline shipped more than 200 pets last year. Etihad Airways is investigating the incident and is working with ground handlers at the New York airport to help locate the missing cat. The Abu Dhabi-based carrier also said it hired ``third-party specialists'' to help in the hunt for Felix. ``We deeply regret this unfortunate incident and are keeping the owner apprised of the progress of the search,'' Etihad Airways told CNN in a statement. ``We will review our pet handling procedures in the wake of this incident, as the safety and care of pets traveling with Etihad Airways is a top priority.''. Stewart and her husband booked the cat's flight as part of their job relocation to the United States after living in Abu Dhabi for more than three years. The couple said they spent $ 1,200 to ship Felix on the 14-hour flight. ``You pay all of this money, but for what ? People assume you pay extra to have your pets taken care of, but they're treated no differently than a free piece of checked luggage,'' Stewart said. It isn't the first time a pet has gone missing at New York's busiest airport. In August 2011, a cat escaped from its carrier before an American Airlines flight from New York to San Francisco. That cat was eventually discovered -- alive -- two months later in a customs room at the airport. But the cat later had to be euthanized because of injuries and malnutrition it suffered while lost. This weekend, Stewart enlisted the help of a local nonprofit, which provided a highly trained detection dog, to help track down Felix's scent. A wildlife biologist who works with the airport has also placed traps to facilitate Felix's safe return, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Officials at Kennedy have offered to assist Etihad Airways as the airline investigates what happened, the Port Authority said. Stewart said the couple will continue to search the airport until they have answers. ``We just want to find Felix. But I just don't know if we will,'' she said.
( CNN ) For those wondering if we would ever hear from the Bluth family again, the answer would appear to be yes. ``Arrested Development'' executive producer Brian Grazer said the show will return for a fifth season of 17 episodes. The Hollywood mogul was interviewed on Bill Simmons' podcast recently, and let it drop that fans can expect more of the quirky comedy. Netflix had no comment for CNN when asked to verify his statements. The fourth season was streamed exclusively on Netflix in 2013, after Fox canceled the show several years before. Despite critical acclaim, the series never had big ratings, but has a devoted fan base, who often quote from the show. It was not yet known if the full cast, including Jason Bateman, Michael Cera and Will Arnett, will return for the season.
( CNN ) Easter is unique on the Christian calendar, a major point in the cycle of the religious year, and one that has always been able to resist the commercialization and culture warring that surrounds Christmas. That's in part because Easter is genuinely about how religious impulses, and patterns, can operate in ways that affect our lives. Nevertheless, I'm often surprised by how little people, even those supposedly within the Christian tradition, actually know about what is called Holy Week and its culmination on Easter Sunday. At a time when our culture is roiled by questions of identity and ethics ( and tolerance ) that have profound religious implications, it's worth pausing to explore this crucial holiday -- and the awareness of the human condition, in all its sadness and glory, that it engenders. After all, Holy Week calls mostly to those who incline their minds and hearts in its direction with seriousness of intent. Still, the fuss must puzzle those looking on, wondering what it all means. Why do Christians make so much of this springtime week, and make so much of Easter weekend ?. There is a phrase that many never come across, even among Christians : Easter Triduum. This refers to the three days of Easter that begin with Good Friday, proceed through Holy Saturday, and conclude with Easter Sunday. It's definitely a progression, although the word itself -- triduum -- can refer to any three days of prayer. Easter Triduum has a kind of major prologue in Maundy Thursday, the day when, by tradition, Jesus celebrated the Last Supper with his disciples in the upper room in Jerusalem on the night before he was crucified. The idea of Holy Communion begins with this meal, which was a Passover meal. Jesus, of course, was Jewish, as were all his disciples. He was never trying to erase Judaism and found a new religion. His work involved modifying and extending Judaism in fresh ways. On Maundy Thursday, Christians sometimes practice the washing of feet, recalling that Jesus washed the very dusty feet of his disciples at the Last Supper as a way of demonstrating profound humility -- showing that he was himself a servant -- and modeling a kind of ideal behavior. Good Friday isn't, in fact, so good. It's the day of the crucifixion, when Jesus was scourged and beaten, forced to carry his cross to Golgotha, the ``place of the skull,'' and nailed to the cross itself for what must have been an agonizing death. The actual scene of the Crucifixion varies from gospel to gospel, as do his last words, assembled into the so-called ``seven last words'' of Jesus by adding up fragments from different gospels. Some of these words are quotations, as when Jesus asked God why he has abandoned him : This is a quote from the 22nd Psalm, which opens : ``My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me ?'' Good Friday is a day of death, sacrifice, displacement, fear. Holy Saturday is probably the least understood day of the Easter Triduum. It's a passageway between the darkness of the crucifixion and the bright hope of Easter. This day occupies an anxious space in human experience, when the certain knowledge of something dreadful isn't quite erased -- can't be erased -- simply by hope. It's a day of depression, a day of suspension. Then comes Easter, with the aura of the resurrection. I'm always moved by the deep symbolism of this mythic moment, when the body of Christ becomes what is called a ``glorified body.'' This was not, as I've said elsewhere, the Great Resuscitation, although that's part of it, too. Resurrection implies a total transformation, something beyond the physical realm. It's very important that almost nobody who encounters Jesus after the resurrection can really recognize him, know him, or understand him as the same person who was with them before he was crucified. Easter embraces the great mystery of resurrection, with its promise of transformation -- a shift from one form to another, and a change that moves well beyond any literal understanding. The three days of Easter, the Triduum, occur only once a year on the calendar. But the really interesting thing is that we all experience the pattern of the three days again and again. We find ourselves emptied out in small ways, nailed to our own trees in life, embarrassed or broken by life. It was the Buddha who famously observed that life is suffering. Good Friday embodies the Christian version of that truth. Jesus suffered in the way all of us must suffer. We must all die, perhaps less ignominiously but just as certainly. Our friends and families must die. We all experience illness, loss, sadness, a loss of confidence, darkness. This is simply part of the human experience. We dive again and again into Holy Saturday, too -- a period of transition, when the bleakness of suffering is perhaps slightly behind us but nothing restorative seems in view. We know well this in-between time ; it's an anxious passage, with only a glimmer on the horizon of potential hope. And we've all been resurrected, again and again, perhaps in tiny ways. This is the joy of Easter, and it's not something reserved for one day on the calendar. It's there whenever we experience what T.S. Eliot once called the ``timeless moment,'' which can only occur -- paradoxically -- in time itself. It's a mystical point where timelessness intersects with time. I suspect we all experience the Triduum frequently, sometimes more than once in a single day. But the ritual enactment of these three days of the Easter season reminds all of those who practice Christianity -- and perhaps those who don't -- that we should expect to move through darkness into light. It's a pattern that describes a kind of spiritual progression. It's good cause for celebration, too : and one that won't easily be co-opted by secular culture.
( CNN ) ``Sell all that you own and distribute the money to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven ; then come, follow me,'' Jesus tells the rich man in one of his best-known parables. It was a mantra he invoked repeatedly : the poor were blessed, and it was easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it was for the well-to-do to enter paradise. Meanwhile, Jesus told his Twelve Apostles to leave their day jobs and follow him on an itinerant mission with few prospects of success and no visible means of support. So how did this wandering band of first-century evangelists support themselves ?. Clearly, money was a concern, and not just as an impediment to salvation. In the New Testament, money gets 37 mentions, while ``gold'' gets 38 citations, ``silver'' merits 20, and ``copper'' four. ``Coin'' comes up eight times, and ``purse'' and ``denarii'' -- the Roman currency -- get half a dozen mentions each for a total of 119 currency referrals. Perhaps the most relevant reference is also one of the most charged passages in the New Testament :. As the Gospel of John tells it, six days before Passover, Jesus was in Bethany at the house of his friend Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. A woman named Mary takes a jar of costly perfumed oil and anoints the feet of the reclining Jesus. She dries his feet with her hair, an irresistible image for artists and dramatists. Judas Iscariot objected to the act. ``Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and the money given to the poor ?'' Judas asks. Though 300 denarii was the annual wage of a laborer, Jesus told Judas to leave her alone, and foreshadowing his fate, said the anointing would be useful for his burial, and besides, ``you always have the poor with you'' -- but Jesus would not always be there. What that passage makes clear is that the Jesus community had a common purse because they needed money to survive. So how much ?. ``I imagine the ministry functioned at a subsistence level,'' Rabbi Joshua Garroway, a professor of Early Christianity and the Second Commonwealth at Hebrew Union College in Los Angeles. Jesus and his disciples walked, wore what they had, slept outside or in stayed in friends' homes. They ate what they caught or what others shared. ``I venture to guess that begging and hospitality will have sufficed to meet the basic needs of Jesus and the companions with whom he traveled,'' Garroway said. Garroway said that it was possible, even likely, that Jesus and his followers received donations from supporters, and possibly substantial ones from some of the rich people who were drawn to his ministry despite -- or perhaps because of -- his preaching on the perils of wealth. The Gospel of Luke gives us a glimpse of how Jesus' ministry functioned on a practical level :. ``Soon afterwards he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. The twelve were with him, as well as some women who had been cured of evil spirits and infirmities : Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, and Joanna, the wife of Herod's steward Chuza, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their resources.''. So, according to Luke, women whom Jesus had healed in turn provided for him out of their ``resources,'' with Mary Magdalene and Joanna capturing our attention -- one by virtue of her husband, and the other, by her stature in the story of Jesus. Joanna was an upper-class woman married to a man who was intelligent and capable enough to manage the complicated household of Herod Antipas, the son of Herod the Great, the violent and ambitious head of Judea. As part of this volatile but powerful household, Joanna would be uniquely positioned to help Jesus with her resources, being both wealthy and having palace connections. She attends to him during his life, and, the Gospels tell us, after his death, as one of the trio of women who go to his tomb and find it empty. With her on that morning is Mary Magdalene, also identified as -- among other things -- a financial supporter of Jesus. Mary likely came from the prosperous town of Magdala, on the Sea of Galilee. As home to a thriving fishing industry, as well as dye and textile works, Mary could well have come from an affluent family -- or have been a successful business woman herself. Mary Magdalene was free to travel the country with Jesus and his disciples, so was unlikely to have a husband and children waiting for her at home, and in ``Finding Jesus'' we examine the Gnostic gospel of Mary Magdalene and explore the argument that Jesus was, in fact, her husband. She may have simply been an independent woman with her own resources who found a compelling message, and messenger. Not only was Mary Magdalene one of Jesus' most devoted followers, who stuck with him all the way from Galilee to Jerusalem, from the ministry to the cross and the tomb, but also she provided for him from her own means, said Mark Goodacre, a professor of New Testament and Christian Origins at Duke University. When the Gospels speak of her ``ministering'' to Jesus, they are explaining that she was one of the key figures in Jesus' everyday mission, Goodacre continues. Along with other women like Joanna and Susanna, she was one of those who made his mission viable. Along with these women, men like Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, both men of stature and wealth, may have chipped in to help fund Jesus' ministry. The Gospels reveal that both these men were rich, and supported Jesus -- indeed, it was Joseph who removed Jesus from the cross on Good Friday, anointing his body with the help of Nicodemus, and placing him in the tomb that Joseph had reserved for himself. After the resurrection on that first Easter Sunday, the movement Jesus started grew exponentially, and the church's relationship to money grew more complicated as the needs became greater. Michael McKinley is co-author, with David Gibson, of ``Finding Jesus : Faith. Fact. Forgery. : Six Holy Objects That Tell the Remarkable Story of the Gospels.''
( CNN ) The nation's top stories will be unfolding Tuesday in courthouses and political arenas across the country. Massachusetts is hosting two of the highest-profile court trials in recent memory -- those of former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez and Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Both lengthy trials are coming to a close. In Louisville, Kentucky, Sen. Rand Paul made the not-so-surprising announcement that he will run for president, while in Chicago, voters will head to the polls in a very surprising runoff between Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesus ``Chuy'' Garcia. And in Ferguson, Missouri, the shadow of Michael Brown and the protests over his shooting by Officer Darren Wilson will loom large over the city's elections. Here's a breakdown of what to expect today and how we got here :. Tsarnaev, who's accused of detonating a bomb at the 2013 Boston Marathon along with his now-deceased brother, faces the stiffest of penalties -- life in prison or the death penalty -- if he's found guilty on any of 17 capital counts against him, including setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event as an act of terrorism. The 13th juror : What defense ?. On Monday, survivors and victims' families wept and Tsarnaev fidgeted at a defense table as jurors heard a prosecutor allege that the 21-year-old ``brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets.'' The jury on Tuesday morning began what is expected to be a lengthy deliberation process on 30 total charges, before the so-called penalty phase, should he be found guilty on any counts. It took prosecutors months to present 131 witnesses to support their claim that Hernandez killed semi-pro player Odin Lloyd, yet on Monday, Hernandez's defense team wrapped up its witnesses in less than a day. Closing arguments are scheduled for Tuesday, and the jury will begin deliberations soon thereafter. Jurors in Fall River, Massachusetts, will be asked to decide if Hernandez is culpable in the shooting death of Lloyd, whose body was found in a Massachusetts industrial park in the summer of 2013. Much of the evidence against Hernandez is circumstantial, and among the facts the jury will be asked to take into consideration are New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft's testimony, the testimony of Hernandez's fiancee, some grainy footage from Hernandez's home security system and a footprint left by a Nike Air Jordan shoe. Hernandez known for swagger, even in court. OK, sure, no one was floored when the Kentucky senator announced his bid for the Oval Office, but of course it was news when he made it official Tuesday. Paul is expected to hit the campaign trail visiting the all-important early voters in New Hampshire, South Carolina, Iowa and Nevada. The physician rode a wave of tea party popularity into the Senate in 2010, where he carefully built a brand of mainstream libertarianism, and he is banking on a coalition of younger voters and traditional Republicans to usher him into the White House. Paul and Sen. Ted Cruz are the only declared candidates for the GOP nomination, though the field will certainly grow and could include the likes of Florida's Jeb Bush, New Jersey's Chris Christie, Wisconsin's Scott Walker, South Carolina's Lindsey Graham and Florida's Marco Rubio. Would Rand be here without Ron ?. It's the Windy City's first runoff for a citywide office, and it's being billed as a battle for the ``future of Chicago.''. In one corner, you have Emanuel, President Barack Obama's notoriously hard-charging former chief of staff, and in the other, you have Jesus ``Chuy'' Garcia, a county commissioner who has come to embody populist and liberal Democrats' frustrations with the Chicago incumbent. After Emanuel failed to snare half the vote in February's general election, he will go head-to-head with Garcia. The timing is interesting, too, as Easter, Passover and spring break appear to have spurred more than 142,000 early votes, up from about 90,000 before the first round of voting in February. Following Michael Brown's death, the national spotlight shone on Ferguson, particularly how the city's predominantly black population is woefully underrepresented in its police force and City Council. Yet with all the hubbub about the face of civic leadership, only four in 10 city residents hit the polls in November to cast ballots. Residents speak out ahead of vote. Tuesday's election will bring change, no matter how the ballots are cast : Two black men are running for one of the open seats, and the current lone black council member isn't up for re-election. In another ward, two black women and two white men are vying for an open seat. And a white protester is running for a third post.
Cedar Falls, Iowa ( CNN ) As aides politely tried to rush Ted Cruz from an event in Cedar Falls to one in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Thursday, the presidential candidate continued shaking hands with anyone who wanted to meet him. Finally, after the selfies and conversations started to die down, his aides managed to move him closer to the door when a tall, burly man stopped him. ``Senator,'' he said, ``can I pray with you real quick ?''. ``Yeah,'' Cruz said, as he clasped the man's upper arm and the two bowed their heads. It was one of the many moments when Cruz connected with voters on a religious level last week, as the senator from Texas hit the trail in Iowa for the first time as a presidential candidate. Being the only official contender in the race, Cruz drew large crowds during his two-day swing across the state. He's counting on Iowa, known for its vocal and active evangelical base, to propel him forward in what's expected to be a tough competition among a crowded field of GOP candidates. Cruz, himself, displays a pastoral swagger when he is speaking on stage and working a room. The senator regularly avoids using a podium, instead favoring pacing the stage with a wireless microphone, a scene reminiscent of a Sunday morning sermon. When he meets with people after events, he embraces each one's hand with both of his, softens his usually theatric tone and looks people square in the eye -- a familiar interaction between churchgoing Christians and their pastors. The past two winners of Iowa's caucuses rose to victory with support from the Christian right, and Cruz, who announced his bid last month at the well-known Baptist school Liberty University, is aiming to energize that same base and claim the coveted state as his prize. Evangelicals make up a large segment of Iowa's Republican voter bloc. According to a Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics poll from January, 44 % of likely 2016 Republican caucus-goers said they were born-again or evangelical Christians. Cruz has built a brand as a stalwart conservative willing to buck GOP leadership on fiscal issues, but he showed in Iowa last week that he's also eager to champion social issues at a time when many Republicans are anxious to avoid them. He was one of the loudest defenders of the religious freedom law in Indiana, which came under fire last week for what critics called paving a path to discrimination against gays and lesbians. He described the outrage over the laws as ``shameful'' and an ``assault'' on First Amendment rights. ``There are a lot of people here in Iowa and across the country whose hearts are breaking, watching what has happened in the last two weeks,'' Cruz said Friday night at an event in Des Moines. ``We have seen a grossly unfair vilification of religious liberty.''. RELATED : Republican 2016 hopefuls back Indiana's `religious freedom' law. He's more than comfortable talking about his own faith and telling the story of how his father became a Christian and a pastor. Rafael Cruz, who's become a celebrity among Christian conservatives, will frequently visit Iowa over the next year, Cruz told voters. And Cruz's Iowa director, Bryan English, is a former pastor. Cruz's first television ads are appearing this weekend during programs on Fox News and NBC that are pegged to Easter Sunday. In the ad, Cruz talks about the impact of the ``transformative love of Jesus Christ'' on his life. While neither Mike Huckabee, who won Iowa in 2008, nor Rick Santorum, who won in 2012, went on to win the nomination, their successes helped launch them into high-profile battles with the then-front-runners. And with both of them likely running again in 2016, the competition will be stiff. That's why, for Cruz, courting evangelicals is only a component of a three-pronged strategy to win the nomination that also includes dominating the tea party faction and competing for the libertarian base. His stump speech hits on elements that appeal to each faction. He received standing ovations last week for calling to abolish the IRS, and, in a knock against the National Security Agency, he frequently tells audiences to leave their cell phones on so President Obama ``can hear every word I have to say.''. Cruz argued Thursday that the Republican Party needs to bridge the gap between what he described as the Ron Paul-Rand Paul faction of the party -- young libertarian-minded voters -- and the Santorum base -- evangelicals. The two blocs, he said, are ``not necessarily the best of chums.''. ``If we're going to win, we've got to bring that coalition together,'' he said in Cedar Falls. ``And I think we can do that.''. Cruz frequently says he wants to see a return of the evangelical vote to 2004 levels, when more than six in 10 evangelicals voted in the presidential election, a higher than normal turnout for the demographic. That number has waned slightly since 2004 -- but it's not too far off from the 56 % of the overall population that voted in 2012. Still, his campaign believes that if it can tap into the group of evangelicals who've been staying home and get the demographic as a whole to overperform, then that could mean the difference of millions more at the polls. ``If you look at available places for the party to expand the vote, it doesn't exist in the middle, it exists in the evangelical vote,'' said Rick Tyler, a top Cruz adviser. ``It isn't a pond, it's an unfished ocean of available voters who are conservative.''. Russell Moore, president of the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, said he expects to see record turnout among evangelicals in 2016 no matter who the nominee is or what that person says. Moore points to hot-button topics like religious freedom issues in the U.S., as well as increased attention to the killing of minority Christians in the Middle East and rising anti-Semitism. ``I don't think a candidate is going to be able to get very far simply by using evangelical lingo or by pointing to his or her personal faith,'' Moore said. ``I think a candidate is going to have to explain how he or she would protect religious liberty and would appoint justices and judges who will maintain the common good.''. Later in April, voters in Iowa will see the bulk of the GOP field tackle these issues when they take the stage at an event hosted by the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition. While the past two winners of the Iowa caucuses -- Santorum and Huckabee -- are likely running for president again, Steve Scheffler, president of the group, argued that the field is wide open in terms of who's going to win favor among evangelicals. Jeb Bush, while not popular among conservative activists, was known for his staunch anti-abortion record as Florida governor and touts his Catholic faith as a big force behind his policy views. Scott Walker is the son of a pastor. Ben Carson, the former neurosurgeon, rose to fame in conservative circles after criticizing the Obama administration at a national prayer breakfast. And other likely candidates -- from Marco Rubio to Rick Perry to Rand Paul -- have made serious efforts to court the religious right. ``It's up for grabs. It's a clean slate regardless of if you've run before,'' Scheffler said. ``Naturally those two ( Huckabee and Santorum ) have the name recognition and database of people who supported them in the past, but by and large voters are going to say, `Let me take a good look at all of these candidates.'''
( CNN ) Just kill it already. That was the sentiment of many ``Vampire Diaries'' fans on Tuesday after star Nina Dobrev announced she will be leaving the CW show at the end of this season. ``I always knew I wanted Elena's story to be a six season adventure, and within those six years I got the journey of a lifetime,'' she posted on her social media accounts after a ``goodbye party'' at Lake Lanier outside Atlanta, where the show is filmed. ``I was a human, a vampire, a doppelganger, a crazy immortal, a doppelganger pretending to be human, a human pretending to be a doppelganger. I got kidnapped, killed, resurrected, tortured, cursed, body-snatched, was dead and undead, and there's still so much more to come before the season finale in May.''. And while that may be true, fans were feeling a little jilted. Many chastised the show's producers, some even Dobrev herself, for allowing the show to go on to a seventh season this fall after she departs. Many were upset that Dobrev's departure could sink hopes of seeing a satisfying denouement to the relationship between Dobrev's character, Elena Gilbert, and love interest vampire Damon Salvatore. Fans called the couple ``Delena.''. ``I feel angry, sad, depressed, numb but most of all I feel like part of me died along with Nina leaving TVD. Nothing will be the same again,'' Twitter user iDamonAndElena posted. Producer Julie Plec issued a statement supporting Dobrev's decision. ``Nina is excited to spread her wings, get some rest, travel the world and also take it by storm, and we support her a thousand-fold,'' she said in the statement, according to media accounts. ``We will miss Nina and the four hundred characters she played, but we look forward to the insane and exciting challenge of continuing to tell stories of our Salvatore Brothers and our much-loved and gifted ensemble.''. No thanks, some fans said. Dobrev seemed to anticipate the pain, urging fans to hold on through the show's finale next month. ``If you think you know what's coming, you don't,'' she said.
Beijing ( CNN ) China's state prosecutors on Friday formally charged the country's former security czar with accepting bribes, making him the highest-ranking Chinese Communist Party official ever to face corruption charges. Zhou Yongkang, 72, was also charged with abuse of power and leaking state secrets, the Supreme People's Procuratorate, the highest prosecution authority in China, said. As a member of the ruling Communist Party's Politburo Standing Committee -- China's top decision-making body -- Zhou was one of nine men who effectively ruled the country of more than 1.3 billion people. He retired in 2012. At the height of his power, Zhou controlled police forces, spy agencies, court systems as well as prosecution offices across China -- and wasn't shy in deploying his vast assets to crush dissent and unrest in the name of ``preserving social stability.''. Now, prosecutors have accused Zhou of ``taking advantage of his posts to seek benefits for others and illegally accepting huge amounts of money'' during his long political career. His alleged actions have caused heavy losses to public assets and greatly harmed national interests, they added. Zhou was notified of his legal rights during the investigation and his lawyer's views were heard, according to a statement by the prosecutors. His case will be tried in Tianjin, a city near the Chinese capital, Beijing. The president of China's supreme court recently told reporters there would be ``open'' trials for accused former leaders like Zhou. However, the charge of leaking state secrets may allow authorities to shield certain legal proceedings from public view in Zhou's case. Zhou has not been seen in public since he attended an anniversary event at his alma mater in October 2013. He was expelled from the Communist Party and arrested last December. State media have painted an intricate web of officials, cronies and tycoons -- some with alleged mafia connections -- orbiting around Zhou before the crumbling of his power structure last summer. Zhou and his family members were said to have accumulated enormous wealth, in a blatant exchange between money and power. He was also found to have affairs with multiple women and allegedly traded power for sex, state-run Xinhua news agency reported last year. Analysts have viewed his shocking downfall as a watershed moment in the secretive world of Chinese politics, now ruled by President Xi Jinping. Xi has been spearheading a massive anti-corruption campaign, targeting both ``tigers'' and ``flies'' -- high-ranking, and low-level, officials. Zhou is by far the biggest tiger caught in Xi's dragnet to date. ``The important thing here is that Xi has proven he's powerful enough to break this taboo of never incriminating former Politburo Standing Committee members,'' longtime political analyst Willy Lam, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said last year, when the government revealed its formal investigation into Zhou. Many observers also note Zhou's patronage of Bo Xilai, a former Communist leader sentenced to life in prison for corruption in 2013. Bo's spectacular downfall the year before -- complete with tales of murder, bribery and betrayal -- attracted global attention. State media have cited his subsequent conviction as a prime example of Xi's resolve to clean up the party. The former Chongqing Communist Party chief's supporters, however, have long called him a political victim -- the former high-flying politician was once considered Xi's main challenger for the top spot of Chinese leadership. Political watchers see similarities between the Bo and Zhou cases. ``The people being investigated for corruption are on the losing side of factional struggles,'' said Lam, who has predicted a suspended death sentence for Zhou.
New Delhi, India ( CNN ) Police have arrested four employees of a popular Indian ethnic-wear chain after a minister spotted a security camera overlooking the changing room of one of its stores. Federal education minister Smriti Irani was visiting a FabIndia outlet in the tourist resort state of Goa on Friday when she discovered a surveillance camera pointed at the changing room, police said. Four employees of the store have been arrested, but its manager -- herself a woman -- was still at large Saturday, said Goa police superintendent Kartik Kashyap. State authorities launched their investigation right after Irani levied her accusation. They found an overhead camera that the minister had spotted and determined that it was indeed able to take photos of customers using the store's changing room, according to Kashyap. After the incident, authorities sealed off the store and summoned six top officials from FabIndia, he said. The arrested staff have been charged with voyeurism and breach of privacy, according to the police. If convicted, they could spend up to three years in jail, Kashyap said. Officials from FabIndia -- which sells ethnic garments, fabrics and other products -- are heading to Goa to work with investigators, according to the company. ``FabIndia is deeply concerned and shocked at this allegation,'' the company said in a statement. ``We are in the process of investigating this internally and will be cooperating fully with the police.''
( CNN ) Nine British citizens were arrested in Turkey on Wednesday, suspected of trying to cross illegally into Syria, the Turkish military said on its website. The group included four children -- the oldest being 10 or 11, with the youngest born in 2013, a Turkish official told CNN on condition of anonymity. The nine were arrested at the Turkey-Syria border, the Turkish military said. It didn't say why the group allegedly was trying to get into Syria, which has been torn by a roughly four-year war between Syrian government forces and Islamist extremist groups and other rebels. Among the war's combatants is ISIS, which has taken over parts of Syria and Iraq for what it claims is its Islamic caliphate, and which is known to have been recruiting Westerners. Accompanying the children were three men and two women ; all nine had British passports, the Turkish official said. UK police charge man with terror offenses after Turkey trip. The British Foreign Office said Wednesday that it is aware of reports of the arrests and that it is seeking information about the incident from Turkish authorities. CNN's Gul Tuysuz reported from Istanbul, and Elaine Ly reported from London. CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Kayahan, one of Turkey's best-loved singers and songwriters, died of cancer Friday at the age of 66. He had performed most recently in Istanbul on Valentine's Day. The performer, who was also an accomplished guitarist, was first diagnosed with cancer in 1990, the year he competed in the Eurovision Song Contest, and the year before he released the album that ignited his career. The cancer returned in 2005 and then again in 2014, Turkey's semiofficial Anadolu Agency reported. He died Friday in a hospital in Istanbul, five days after his 66th birthday. ``We are in grief over losing Kayahan, who contributed to Turkish music with countless compositions and marked a generation with his songs,'' Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu tweeted. The singer, whose full name was Kayahan Acar, was born in Izmir province, in western Turkey on March 29, 1949. He grew up in Ankara, Turkey's capital, before moving to Istanbul. In 1990, he competed in the Eurovision Song Contest, finishing 17th. The following year he released an album titled ``I Made a Vow,'' which catapulted him to prominence. Though he recorded nearly 20 albums, that one would remain his most popular. His final album was released in 2007. Other artists recorded his material throughout his career. Videos available online show a vibrant performer with a thick shock of dark hair as he accompanies himself on guitar and croons in a clear tenor. Kayahan was best known for his love songs. More recent videos show a frailer performer, seated and without a guitar, but still clearly glorying in the joy of singing a song.
( CNN ) A nuclear submarine being repaired at a Russian shipyard has caught on fire, according to a law enforcement source speaking to Russia's state-run news agency ITAR-Tass. ``The submarine is in a dry dock,'' Tass reports, citing the source, and there is no ammunition on board. ``The rubber insulation between the submarine's light and pressure hull is on fire,'' Tass reported. Russia's RIA Novosti news agency says insulation caught on fire as welding work was being done on the submarine. Tass reported that the fire began on a sub in the Zvyozdochka shipyard in northwestern Russia. Zvyozdochka spokesman Yevgeny Gladyshev told the news agency that the sub had been undergoing repairs since November 2013. ``Nuclear fuel from the sub's reactor has been unloaded,'' he reportedly said. ``There are no armaments or chemically active, dangerous substances, fissionable materials on it,'' Gladyshev said to Tass. ``The enterprise's personnel left the premises when the submarine caught fire, no one has been injured. The fire presents no threat to people and the shipyard.''
( CNN ) Four workers died in a massive oil rig fire that raged for hours off the coast of Mexico Wednesday. Mexican state oil company Pemex said 45 workers were injured in the blaze, which began early Wednesday morning. Two of them are in serious condition, the company said. Authorities evacuated about 300 people from the Abkatun Permanente platform after the fire started, Pemex said. At least 10 boats worked to battle the blaze for hours. The fire had been extinguished by Wednesday night, Pemex said in a Twitter post. The company denied rumors that the platform had collapsed and said there was no oil spill as a result of the fire. The state oil company hasn't said what caused the fire on the platform, which is located in the Gulf of Mexico's Campeche Sound. The fire began in the platform's dehydration and pumping area, Pemex said. CNN's Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A French-language global television network regained control of one of its 11 channels Thursday after a cyberattack a day earlier crippled its broadcasts and social media accounts. Television network TV5Monde was gradually regaining control of its channels and social media outlets after suffering what the network's director called an ``extremely powerful cyberattack.''. In addition to its 11 channels, TV5Monde lost control of its social media outlets and its websites, director Yves Bigot said in a video message posted later on Facebook. On a mobile site, which was still active, the network said it was ``hacked by an Islamist group.'' ISIS logos and markings appeared on TV5Monde social media accounts. But there was no immediate claim of responsibility by ISIS or any other group. As day broke Thursday in Europe, the network had regained the use of one of its 11 channels and its Facebook page, Paul Germain, the chain's editor in chief, told BFMTV, a CNN affiliate in France. However, by late morning, a number of pages on the network's website had messages saying they were under maintenance. The outage began around 8:45 p.m. Paris time ( 2:45 p.m. ET ) on Wednesday. TV5Monde offers round-the-clock entertainment and news programming that reaches 260 million homes worldwide, according to the Ministry of Culture and Communications. It functions under a partnership among the governments of France, Canada and Switzerland, as well as the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Other networks that provide content to TV5Monde include CNN affiliates France 2 and France 3, France 24 and Radio France International.
Kabul, Afghanistan ( CNN ) Three people were killed and five others were wounded Thursday afternoon when a group of armed assailants stormed into the attorney general's office in Balkh province, northern Afghanistan, according to a press release from the provincial governor's office. Although most staff members and civilians have been rescued, an exchange of fire between Afghan security forces and the assailants is ongoing, the statement says. Two police officers and a security guard of the provincial attorney general's office were among the dead. Afghan security forces are cautiously making advances in the fight in order to avoid civilian casualties, according to the press statement.
Boston ( CNN ) Guilty across the board. But will he face death ?. After deliberating for 11 1/2 hours, jurors found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty on Wednesday of all 30 counts he faced in the Boston Marathon bombing trial. Seventeen of the 30 counts were capital charges, meaning he is eligible for the death penalty. The trial will next move into a penalty phase, where the jury will hear testimony and arguments from both sides and ultimately be tasked with deciding whether Tsarnaev, 21, will be executed. A look at all of the charges. Jurors will be asked to weigh aggravating factors such as the heinousness of his crimes against mitigating factors such as his family and mental health history, as well as his relative youth. Tsarnaev was 19 at the time of the bombing. The start date of the penalty phase has not yet been set. Since testimony began March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. It seemed a mismatch from the start. ``He was there,'' Tsarnaev's defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but many say the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life. Tsarnaev lawyer keeps hated criminals off death row. Clarke tried to convince jurors that her client's older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a shootout with police days after the terror attack, was the instigator of the marathon plot. The younger man, Clarke said, was only following his older brother. After the verdict, CNN legal analyst Paul Callan said Clarke now faces an uphill battle. ``Because No. 1, he ( Tsarnaev ) is almost functioning as an officer of a military organization attacking the United States -- the claim of course that he's an Islamic radical and that this is almost an army-like attack on civilians. ``And the second thing -- it was so well planned and so callously planned so that civilians would die, so that children would be maimed. And all of this, she has to get around and convince the jury he's not worthy of the death penalty. ``Boy, she's climbing the Mount Everest of death penalty cases in this case,'' Callan said about Clarke. Survivors react to the verdict. Ann O'Neill reported from Boston. Dana Ford reported from Atlanta.
( CNN ) A mammoth fire broke out Friday morning in a Kentucky industrial park, sending plumes of thick smoke over the area as authorities worked to contain the damage. The blaze began shortly before 7 a.m. at the General Electric Appliance Park in Louisville, according to Mike Weimer from the city's emergency management agency. He said that there were no reports of anyone injured or trapped. Video showed both smoke and bright orange flames. Firefighters took up positions around the affected buildings, spraying water from the periphery. Weimer told CNN that authorities didn't know what had caused the fire, which had gone to at least four alarms. According to a GE website, its facility in the Louisville Appliance Park is ``revitalizing manufacturing in the United States.'' The park is large, such that 34 football fields could fit in one of its warehouses in the facility.
( CNN ) Do you remember the talk about plans for Iraqi-led force to try to take back Mosul this spring ?. Well, you might want to forget it. Nearly three months after a U.S. official said up to 25,000 Iraqis troops were expected to return to the key northern Iraqi city in April or May, a senior official in President Barack Obama's administration said Thursday that Washington is ``not putting a timeframe on'' a possible invasion. It ``might be some time from now. Might be soon,'' another senior administration official said. Mosul has long been the big prize in the Iraqi government's fight -- aided by a U.S.-led military coalition, which has carried out airstrikes for months -- to defeat ISIS. It has also long been a source of embarrassment, considering how it fell after Iraqi troops dropped their weapons, abandoned their posts and ran for their lives when militants arrived last June. The senior administration officials who talked to reporters Thursday stressed the Iraqis and their allies are making progress in their fight against the group that calls itself the Islamic State. In fact, officials insist that ISIS has been degraded substantially thanks to a combination of air power and ground combat. The biggest and most recent example of this came with the recapture a few weeks ago of Tikrit, the hometown of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein that is located some 100 miles ( 160 kilometers ) north of Baghdad. Iraqi forces aided by Iranian-backed Shiite militiamen took that northern city, the same place where ISIS allegedly massacred Iraqi troops last year. Still, Mosul isn't Tikrit. For one thing, it has a lot more people -- about a million, one Obama administration official noted. And it's more important not only to Iraq, but ISIS, meaning the terrorist group has all the more reason to go all-out to defend it. In some ways, the campaign for Mosul has begun, according to officials. There are no plans for U.S. combat troops involvement in an eventual operation, they say, but airstrikes have already targeted ISIS positions in the area. Just because the area has been softened up some from the air, though, doesn't mean a full ground assault is imminent. Calling for ``patience,'' an administration official said that winning Mosul is a complex endeavor. It will ``take a lot of capacity,'' the official said, ``and some time to build.''
( CNN ) The California Public Utilities Commission on Thursday said it is ordering Pacific Gas & Electric Co. to pay a record $ 1.6 billion penalty for unsafe operation of its gas transmission system, including the pipeline rupture that killed eight people in San Bruno in September 2010. Most of the penalty amounts to forced spending on improving pipeline safety. Of the $ 1.6 billion, $ 850 million will go to ``gas transmission pipeline safety infrastructure improvements,'' the commission said. Another $ 50 million will go toward ``other remedies to enhance pipeline safety,'' according to the commission. ``PG&E failed to uphold the public's trust,'' commission President Michael Picker said. ``The CPUC failed to keep vigilant. Lives were lost. Numerous people were injured. Homes were destroyed. We must do everything we can to ensure that nothing like this happens again.''. The company's chief executive officer said in a written statement that PG&E is working to become the safest energy company in the United States. ``Since the 2010 explosion of our natural gas transmission pipeline in San Bruno, we have worked hard to do the right thing for the victims, their families and the community of San Bruno,'' Tony Earley said. ``We are deeply sorry for this tragic event, and we have dedicated ourselves to re-earning the trust of our customers and the communities we serve. The lessons of this tragic event will not be forgotten.''. On September 9, 2010, a section of PG&E pipeline exploded in San Bruno, killing eight people and injuring more than 50 others. The blast destroyed 37 homes. PG&E said it has paid more than $ 500 million in claims to the victims and victims' families in San Bruno, which is just south of San Francisco. The company also said it has already replaced more than 800 miles of pipe, installed new gas leak technology and implemented nine of 12 recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board. According to its website, PG&E has 5.4 million electric customers and 4.3 million natural gas customers. The Los Angeles Times reported the previous record penalty was a $ 146 million penalty against Southern California Edison Company in 2008 for falsifying customer and worker safety data. CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
( CNN ) In her 40 years living in Rochelle, Illinois, Cathy Olson had never seen a tornado that big. ``I saw the top of the funnel cloud, and it was absolutely massive,'' she said. She watched the hulking gray twister grind past her town Thursday, tearing up its fringes. Farther north, in the rural Illinois hamlet of Fairdale, one person died as a twister shredded homes and ripped trees bare of leaves and most limbs. Only the thickest branches remained standing. It was the only death reported so far in two days of tornado touchdowns. Rochelle was fortunate. But in nearby Kirkland, debris was so thick on the roads, responders searching for trapped residents could not yet assess the damage or injuries, fire officials said. On Thursday, a video surfaced on YouTube of a massive twister barreling across an open field, barely missing farmhouses and barns. Images of the funnel turned up elsewhere on social media. Multiple tornadoes ripped through the rural Midwest on Thursday. A large and dangerous twister tore across fields in Iowa. And a twister touched down 70 miles outside of St. Louis. Eight tornadoes were reported Wednesday in Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri, the Storm Prediction Center said. But it appears residents have been fortunate enough to come away from the terrifying weather spectacle alive. Hail stones the size of tennis balls plummeted down on Ashton, Illinois. It could have been worse as severe tornado damage dotted a path not far from the dense populations of Chicago and Rockford -- the state's third largest city. The tornado cut a 22-mile path through Ogle County, according to disaster management coordinator Tom Richter. North of Rochelle, a tornado took away a local favorite restaurant -- Grubsteakers. ``It's kind of one of your little greasy spoon restaurants,'' said Eric Widick, who drove up in his truck to help out. ``We're a community. If one person is in need, we'll all be there for them.''. People were inside when the storm quashed Grubsteakers and turned over a semitruck parked outside. No one was killed or seriously injured, Widick said. Although a patron who found shelter in a restroom was trapped inside for about half an hour. People had been eating at Grubsteakers for some 25 years and will miss it, Widick said. In Rochelle, the tornado flattened some of Olson's friends' homes. A safe distance away from it, at her mother's house, she had to think about her husband, Chet, who was reelected mayor of the town of about 10,000 people the day before. He'd have a job ahead of him. ``I have not been able to get a hold of him, Olson said, ``but I know he's in touch with the sheriff and is safe,'' she said. Sheriff Brian VanVickle told journalists late Thursday that the tornado had spared life and limb in Ogle County aside from some people whose injuries were easily treatable. The county lost 20 homes -- one of them was his own. Fifty to 100 houses had significant damage, he said. Only foundations remained of some homes, said storm chaser Dan Gottschalk. ``You can hear the hissing everywhere from where the structures used to be,'' he said. Lindsey Clark, a reporter from CNN affiliate WREX, said rescuers were pulling trapped people from a home in the Rochelle area. VanVickle was newly elected sheriff of Rochelle on Wednesday. On Thursday, the storm took his house and his sister-in-law's. ``I've got the clothes on my back,'' he said. But his family wasn't at home when it hit. ``My family was on the way to Louisville, dog was in the basement and she survived.''. It was the first tornado the sheriff had ever seen in his county. ``I've lived here all my life, am the fifth generation in the county. My mom said this is the first time she's ever seen a tornado.''. He is thankful that the National Weather Service warned one could come. That saved lives, he believes. The service warned of a ``particularly dangerous situation.'' People across the Midwest should be on alert for severe weather. Tornado watches were set to run out early Friday. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Catherine Shoichet, Greg Botelho, Dave Alsup, Steve Almasy, Jack Maddox and Sean Morris contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Eyewitness video showing white North Charleston police Officer Michael Slager shooting to death an unarmed black man has exposed discrepancies in the reports of the first officers on the scene. Slager has been fired and charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. A bystander's cell phone video, which began after an alleged struggle on the ground between Slager and Scott, shows the five-year police veteran shooting at Scott eight times as Scott runs away. Scott was hit five times. If words were exchanged between the men, they're are not audible on the tape. It's unclear what happened before Scott ran, or why he ran. The officer initially said that he used a Taser on Scott, who, Slager said, tried to take the weapon. Before Slager opens fire, the video shows a dark object falling behind Scott and hitting the ground. It's unclear whether that is the Taser. Later in the video, when Slager approaches Scott's body, Slager appears to drop a dark object near Scott. Slager is seen in the video handcuffing Scott after the shooting. Witness : I nearly erased shooting video out of fear. Feidin Santana, the witness who recorded the video, said he didn't see Scott grab Slager's Taser. His account contradicts what Slager told dispatchers. In two interviews with NBC, Santana said that he was walking to his job in North Charleston on Saturday morning when he saw Slager chase Scott, who had been pulled over for a broken taillight. Santana told NBC's Lester Holt on Wednesday that he saw the two men struggling on the ground. ``They were down on the ( ground ).. before I started recording,'' Santana said. ``I remember the police ( officer ) had control of the situation. He had control of Scott.''. Santana said he heard the sound of a Taser being used. He believed Scott was trying to get away from it. But Scott never got the Taser or used it on the officer, Santana told NBC. Who was Walter Scott ?. A North Charleston Police report included brief statements from eight police officers, but not Slager. One officer, identified as Sgt. J. Gann, said in the report he was conducting a separate traffic stop about 9:30 a.m. Saturday when he heard -- apparently via radio -- Slager say he was ``in foot pursuit'' of another motorist. Gann said that while driving to the officer's location, ``Slager advised that he deployed his Taser and ( requested ) back up units.''. Seconds later, Gann reported, he heard Slager tell a dispatcher, ``Shots fired and the subject is down. He took my Taser.''. Hours after the shooting, The Post and Courier of Charleston quoted a statement from police spokesman Spencer Pryor, who said Slager attempted to use his Taser to stop a fleeing suspect. The men struggled over the device, with the suspect taking the Taser and attempting to use it against Slager, the newspaper reported. In the police report, another officer, J. Banias, said he was heading to the scene about 10 minutes after the initial call. Slager asked him to ``secure his vehicle at the site of the traffic stop.''. Banias said he spoke to a passenger in the car Scott was driving. ``The passenger was.. detained and placed in the back seat of my vehicle,'' the officer reported. The passenger's identity was not given in the report, but the officer said in the report that the passenger was detained. Scott family spokesman Ryan Julison confirmed to CNN that a man was with Scott and said he is not related to the family. The family declined to provide any more information. A timeline of events. The North Charleston Police Department is not providing additional information, citing an ongoing investigation of Scott's killing by the independent South Carolina Law Enforcement Division. Gann said when he arrived at the shooting scene, an officer identified only as Habersham ``was administering first aid'' to Scott. ``I exited my vehicle and assisted Officer Habersham with first aid and CPR to the driver,'' Gann said in the report. ``We continued to perform first aid and CPR until EMS arrived.. When EMS and first responders arrived, EMS took care over providing care to the driver, who was pronounced deceased a short time later.''. Habersham, in his account, did not mention performing CPR. ``I attempted to render aid to the victim by applying pressure to the gunshot wounds and ( directing ) the best route for EMS and fire to get to the victim faster,'' he said in the report. An officer identified as Sgt. Webb said that he requested an ambulance. Webb said that at 9:41 a.m. he saw Habersham ``administering chest compression to the defendant.''. North Charleston Police Chief Eddie Driggers was asked at a news conference this week whether CPR was performed on Scott. ``I do not know. I was told that life-saving.. that they tried to save his life,'' Driggers said. North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey added that not every North Charleston police officer is CPR certified. What we know about Officer Slager.
( CNN ) Police in India are putting aside their batons in favor of an overhead solution to angry and unruly crowds : pepper-spraying drones. Yashasvi Yadav, Senior Superintendent of police in Lucknow, northern India, told CNN the city's force has bought four drones and is in the process of purchasing one more. ``The drones have been tested in controlled conditions,'' he said. ``They have been very successful and will be used by the Lucknow police whenever there are violent protests or mob attacks.''. The miniature aircraft will be fitted with a camera and pepper spray ; each drone costs between $ 9,560 and $ 19,300, Yadav added. Views on the new measure are mixed, with some concerned about the suppression of freedom of speech -- an already contentious issue in India. Last month, the country failed to enforce a law that would allow authorities to arrest people who post offensive material on social media. Others believe the country could learn from events further afield. Some say this method of crowd control needs regulation too. Questions have also been raised as to why the police are resorting to aggression. ``While I think it is bound to fail if not be another scam in the making, it also shows the mindset of the administration to not use dialogue and mediation to solve problems but use authoritarian and forceful methods,'' photojournalist Chirag Wakaskar in Mumbai told CNN. ``What they could do is start by having video surveillance in sensitive areas and have swifter justice.''. Protests are a common occurrence in India, a country with a population of 1.2 billion ; Lucknow, the capital of the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, also used drone cameras to monitor crowds at a recent religious festival. As well as being used as a security measure in other cities including Delhi and Mumbai, the unmanned, airborne vehicles have been used in tiger hunts, disaster relief and criminal investigations -- and even pizza deliveries. Reports suggest that the drone surveillance will be officially launched by the Chief Minister of Lucknow, Akhilesh Yadav, later this month. Kunal Sehgal contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Just as the agency begins to recover from a series of high-profile missteps, the Secret Service is facing yet another scandal. A female employee accused Xavier Morales, a supervisor within the agency, of assault after he made sexual advances at her, according to The Washington Post. ``The woman told police and agency investigators that Morales, her boss, told her during the party at Capitol City Brewing Company that he was in love with her and would like to have sex with her,'' and later tried to kiss her in the office, according to a report from The Washington Post. During the incident, he ``grabbed her arms when she resisted'' and the two tussled until Morales gave up, sources told the paper. The Post reports that the March 31 party was in celebration of Morales' new assignment as head of the Louisville field office. A Secret Service spokesperson confirms that Morales was placed on administrative leave and his security clearance was suspended. This incident was first reported on April 2, and Secret Service Director Joe Clancy was briefed that afternoon. Clancy called the allegations ``very disturbing.''. ``Any threats or violence that endangers our employees in the workplace is unacceptable and will not be tolerated,'' he said in a statement. This is just the latest chapter for an organization embroiled in scandal over the past several months. Last month, two top-ranking officials were suspended following an incident at a White House command post during an investigation of a possible bomb. Clancy was not made aware of the episode until five days later. The agency has also faced scrutiny for another lapse in late January when a drone crash-landed on the White House lawn. Secret Service Director Julia Pierson resigned in September after a fence-jumper gained access to the East Room of the White House. Earlier in September, an armed security contractor was allowed to get into an elevator with President Barack Obama during a trip to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. An independent report released in December found that the Secret Service is stretched ``beyond its limits,'' needing more training, more staff, and a director from outside its ranks. Clancy, who formally assumed the post in February, is a 27-year veteran of the agency. ``It's going to take time to change some of this culture,'' Clancy said at a House Appropriations Committee hearing last month. ``There's no excuse for this information not to come up the chain. That's going to take time because I'm going to have to build trust with our workforce.''. The incident will be further investigated by the Office of the Inspector General.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Richard Dysart, the Emmy-winning actor who portrayed the cranky senior partner Leland McKenzie in the slick, long-running NBC drama ``L.A. Law,'' has died. He was 86. Dysart, who also played Coach in the original 1972 Broadway production of Jason Miller's Pulitzer Prize-winning ``That Championship Season,'' died Sunday at home in Santa Monica after a long illness, his wife, artist Kathryn Jacobi, told The Hollywood Reporter. The acclaimed ``L.A. Law'' -- created by Steven Bochco ( who eventually handed off the series to David E. Kelley ) and Terry Louise Fisher -- aired for eight seasons from 1986 to 1994. For playing the founder of the firm McKenzie, Brackman, Chaney and Kuzak, Dysart was nominated for the Emmy for outstanding supporting actor in a drama series for four straight years, finally winning the trophy in 1992. ``I always had him in mind for that role,'' Bochco said in a 2002 interview with the Archive of American Television. ``He's so avuncular. So I reached out to him. You know, Dick is sort of an old hippie. So he went into his closet and tried to find a lawyer outfit, and he came to meet us wearing a suit and tie. He was perfect.''. ``We got together, mapped out the character's past to give us a basis from which to work, and it's all gone smoothly since then,'' Dysart said in a 1990 interview with The Seattle Times. ``Sometimes I worry -- it's all been going too well -- a role I love to play in a series that's about as good as you can get. Something's wrong !''. Perhaps Dysart's most memorable character arc on the show was when he was found in bed with power-hungry competitor Rosalind Shays ( played by Diana Muldaur ). He was one of the few actors to appear in every episode. Dysart's range of authority - figure parts ran right to the top. He limned Harry Truman in the CBS telefilm ``Day One'' and in the ABC miniseries ``War and Remembrance,'' both of which aired in 1989, and he was Henry L. Stimson, the 33rd U.S. president's Secretary of War, in the 1995 HBO telefilm ``Truman,'' starring Gary Sinise. Similarly, he played the Secretary of Defense in ``Meteor'' ( 1979 ). Hollywood Reporter : Most powerful people in N.Y. media. Dysart also performed extensively in the medical - ( movie ) field, performing enough doctor roles to, perhaps, qualify to practice. His two most memorable came in classic satires : in Paddy Chayevsky's scathing ``The Hospital'' ( 1971 ), starring George C. Scott ( a good friend ), and in ``Being There'' ( 1979 ), as Melvyn Douglas' doctor. He also was a doctor who died a gruesome death in John Carpenter's ``The Thing'' ( 1982 ) and a physician in such films as ``The Terminal Man'' ( 1974 ), ``The Falcon and the Snowman'' ( 1985 ) and ``Warning Sign'' ( 1985 ). Dysart portrayed J. Edgar Hoover in the 1993 USA telefilm ``Marilyn & Bobby : Her Final Affair'' and in Mario Van Peebles' ``Panther'' ( 1995 ). Dysart also excelled as cranky coots and shifty sorts. He portrayed a motel receptionist in Richard Lester's ``Petulia'' ( 1968 ) ; was the bad guy who battled Clint Eastwood in ``Pale Rider'' ( 1985 ) ; stood out as a power player in Oliver Stone's ``Wall Street'' ( 1987 ) ; and sold barbwire in ``Back to the Future III'' ( 1990 ). Dysart was born March 30, 1929, in Boston and raised in Maine. Following high school, he attended the Gould Academy in Bethel, Maine, for a year, served in the U.S. Air Force and attended Emerson College, where he graduated with a master's degree in speech communications. At the time, he was interested in a career in radio ( he became fascinated with the medium in first grade, when he was bedridden for a year because of rheumatic fever ) but was soon tempted by acting. He moved to New York on a whim and was able to land minor roles on TV and a part in an off-Broadway production of ``The Iceman Cometh'' opposite Jason Robards. In the mid-1960s, he joined the American Conservatory Theater and toured the country doing plays, then landed roles on Broadway in ``All in Good Time,'' ``The Little Foxes'' and ``A Place Without Doors.''. He received a Drama Desk Award for his performance in ``That Championship Season.''. Hollywood Reporter : Q&A with Liz Smith. Dysart's credits include an eclectic array of movies, including ``The Crazy World of Julius Vrooder'' ( 1974 ), ``The Day of the Locust'' ( 1975 ), ``The Hindenburg'' ( 1975 ), ``An Enemy of the People'' ( 1978 ), ``Prophecy'' ( 1979 ), ``Mask'' ( 1985 ) and ``Hard Rain'' ( 1998 ). On television, he was top-notch in the telefilms ``The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman'' ( 1974 ), ``The People vs. Jean Harris'' ( 1981 ), as Dwight D. Eisenhower in ``The Last Days of Patton'' ( 1986 ) and as studio chief Louis B. Mayer in ``Malice in Wonderland'' ( 1985 ). Survivors also include his stepson Arie and daughter-in-law Jeannine Jacobi, mother-in-law Lenore, brother and sister-in-law Nadine and John Jacobi and grandchildren Abby and Levi. A private memorial is being planned. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to the Will Geer Theatricum Botanicum, an outdoor theater in Topanga Canyon in the Los Angeles area. Dysart and Jacobi had a second home in the forests of British Columbia. He was lured out of retirement for his last onscreen appearance, the ``L.A. Law'' reunion telefilm of 2002. ``They remain timely, with cases about points of law that are still current,'' he said of watching ``L.A. Law'' reruns in a 2002 interview with The Bangor Daily News.'' -LSB- The show -RSB- was also one of the fathers of yuppiedom. It was very much of the times, and very Los Angeles. It holds up as well as any series I know.''. People we've lost in 2015. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) You may know Mindy Kaling from Fox's cult hit comedy ``The Mindy Project,'' in which she plays Mindy Lahiri, a perky, quirky OB/GYN juggling her career and love life in New York. ( Only in the Big Apple can a doctor not afford an apartment ! ). The show was a breakthrough for on-screen representation -- the first network sitcom created by and starring a woman of color -- and it looks likely to be renewed for the coming 2015-16 season. Recently, however, Kaling's brother Vijay Chokalingam unveiled a project of his own, and while it has been getting a lot of attention, it hasn't generated quite as many laughs -- either from observers or from his famous sibling, who told him it brought ``shame upon their family.''. You see, Chokalingam revealed that, as an undergraduate at the University of Chicago, he engaged in a daring ( his view ) or ridiculous and offensive ( pretty much everyone else ) scam : He applied to medical school claiming to be African-American. Chokalingam had spent his college years as a ``hard-partying frat boy,'' and achieved a less than stunning 3.1 GPA. Upon facing graduation and exploring his med school options, he realized that fellow Indian-Americans with his grades were getting turned down from the universities of his choice -- but that ``black, Hispanic, and Native American applicants with my grades and test scores were much more likely to gain acceptance.''. This revelation led him to make the decision to pose as a black man, both to ``dramatically improve'' his chances of admission, and to illustrate the unfair advantage that blacks and other underrepresented minorities receive when applying to prestigious schools. To accomplish this goal, Chokalingam shaved his head of its naturally wavy black locks, trimmed his ``long Indian-American eyelashes,'' checked ``black'' under the optional race/ethnicity declaration and submitted his application to 14 schools under his childhood nickname ``JoJo.''. He received invitations for in-person interviews at 11 schools, results that he claims support the notion that African-Americans garner special privileges that are unavailable to whites or Asians. And now that the statute of limitations on his act of fraud has expired, he's looking to write a book on his experiences, titled ``Almost Black : The True Story of an Indian American Who Got Into Medical School Pretending to Be an African American.''. What's truly curious is that even if you agree with Chokalingam that affirmative action is merely a form of ``systematic racism,'' when all is said and done, it offers very little evidence of the ``privilege'' that he claims is accorded to black, Hispanic and Native American candidates. Chokalingam had mediocre grades and MCATs, but he graduated from one of the most prestigious schools in the nation. Yet even while representing himself as black, Chokalingam received only a single admission offer, to St. Louis University's School of Medicine, which falls somewhere between 57th and 67th in national rankings. Harvard, University of Pennsylvania, Columbia and all the higher ranked schools he applied to rejected him. Meanwhile, he admits, pretending to be black came with disadvantages. He found himself being accused of shoplifting by store clerks and harassed by cops -- who would regularly stop him while driving and demand that he tell them how much his car cost, implying that he must have stolen it. These acts of very real prejudice, experienced regularly by blacks and Hispanics of all backgrounds -- multimillionaire comedian Chris Rock has recently been tweeting pictures of the occasions when he is pulled over by police for no reason -- didn't seem to dissuade Chokalingam from his adamant belief in the unfairness of a system that seeks to address the shockingly low numbers of minority health practitioners by providing some weight to race and ethnicity in decision-making. It's not just a matter of what individual applicants ``deserve.'' One-third of Americans are black, Hispanic or Native American ; just one in 10 physicians are. Since minority medical practitioners are up to three times as likely to practice in their own communities, this lack of diversity has produced ``doctor deserts,'' in which urban and rural ethnic enclaves across the nation go without access to primary care physicians. Years ago, when I told my father -- a doctor from a long line of doctors -- that I didn't want to follow in his footsteps, he told me that was fine, because medicine is a service trade, and anyone not interested in serving should avoid the profession. A medical degree isn't a reward to be earned, he said, but a responsibility to be accepted. Which really cuts to the heart of what's so sad about Chokalingam's racial farce. Like others who've recently been exposed for falsely claiming racial identities -- including putative presidential candidate Jeb Bush, who registered himself as ``Hispanic'' on a 2009 voter form, and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who was excoriated during her campaign for having claimed Native American ancestry in the past -- Chokalingam wanted to claim the fruits of racial affiliation without having to carry black people's burden. Race isn't just about color or blood ; it is about the collective experiences and inherited cultural context and present-day condition of a community of people. Many of the markers of race are persistently corrosive ; others are deeply painful. Affirmative action programs are a means of redress for these awful realities of our nation's history ; an imperfect one, but necessary. There are some fields where the imbalances might never correct themselves on their own. Industries like health care and Hollywood. Because what's most ironic about Chokalingam's decision to ride on his sister's coattails in telling his story : While Asians are well represented in medicine, our numbers are vanishingly low in the entertainment and media world, and until the recent breakthrough of modern pioneers like Mindy Kaling, it was impossible to imagine film and television that included our faces, voices and stories. Kaling's immense talent and charisma made her a star. But it was a quota-based affirmative action initiative -- NBC's Diversity Writers Program -- that gave her a start.
( CNN ) ``A long, long, time ago..''. Those five words, when uttered or sung, makes baby boomers immediately think of Don McLean's pop masterpiece ``American Pie.'' It's hard to believe that his phenomenal 8 1/2 minute allegory, which millions of Americans know by heart, is 44 years old. All sorts of historical cross-currents play off each other in this timeless song, brilliantly gilded with the unforgettable chorus, which starts as ``Bye, Bye, Miss American Pie.'' There is no real way to categorize McLean's ``American Pie'' for its hybrid of modern poetry and folk ballad, beer-hall chant and high-art rock. On Tuesday, Christie's sold the 16-page handwritten manuscript of the song's lyrics for $ 1.2 million to an unnamed buyer. McLean was a paperboy when, on February 3, 1959, he saw that Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P. ``The Big Bopper'' Richardson had been tragically killed in an airplane crash in Clear Lake, Iowa. ``The next day I went to school in shock and guess what ?'' McLean recalled. ``Nobody cared. Rock'n' roll in those days was sort of like hula hoops and Buddy hadn't had a big hit on the charts since' 57.'' By cathartically writing ``American Pie,'' McLean has guaranteed that the memory of those great musicians lives forever. Having recorded his first album, ``Tapestry,'' in 1969, in Berkeley, California, during the student riots, McLean, a native New Yorker, became a kind of weather vane for what he called the ``generation lost in space.'' When his cultural anthem ``American Pie'' was released in November 1971, it replaced Bob Dylan's ``The Times They Are A Changin'' as the Peoples Almanac of the new decade. It's important to think of ``American Pie'' as one would of Henry Longfellow's ``Evangeline'' or Johnny Mercer's ``Moon River'' -- an essential Americana poem emanating wistful recollection, blues valentine, and youthful protest rolled into one. There is magic brewing in the music and words of ``American Pie,'' for McLean's lyrics and melody frame a cosmic dream, like those Jack Kerouac tried to conjure in his poetry-infused novel ``On the Road.''. Don McLean : Buddy Holly, rest in peace. Influenced by Pete Seeger and the Weavers, McLean proudly wore the mantle of troubadour in the early 1970s, when ``American Pie'' topped the Billboard charts, and has never shed the cape. Wandering far and wide, singing ``American Pie'' at windblown dance halls in Wyoming and cloistered colleges in New England, at huge amphitheaters in California and little coffee houses in the Hudson River Valley, McLean has performed his global anthem thousands of times. Yet the encore number never loses its transfixing allure. When McLean prods audiences by rhapsodizing ``and they were singing'' everybody spontaneously joins in with the ``Bye, Bye'' chorus. Watching McLean deliver his most notable song in concert is to take part in a collective Happening. What makes ``American Pie'' so unusual is that it isn't a relic from the counterculture but a talisman, which, like a sacred river, keeps bringing joy to listeners everywhere. When ``American Pie'' suddenly is played on a jukebox or radio it's almost impossible not to sing along. Like ``Danny Boy'' or ``Streets of Laredo'' or ``Shenandoah,'' it's eternal. With illusions to football fields and rock'n' roll, river levees and nursery rhymes, the song cascades along like a boat going down Niagara Falls or a roller coaster that jumps tracks but floats instead of crashes. After all these years, ``American Pie'' still makes me feel empowered and yet filled with a sense of loss. The song is alive and joyful, yet fretful about a world gone wrong. It is a song that will never die. A reverie for the ages. There is a jump to the chorus, which forces the mind to relive the'50s,'60s and'70s, to troll through the back pages of our lives while, like a traditional Irish folksong, it reminds us of fate. While McLean, the muse, has rightfully not tried to interpret ``American Pie,'' it's fair to surmise that ``the king'' is Elvis Presley, ``Helter Skelter'' refers to the Charles Manson murders, the ``jester on the sidelines in a cast'' is Bob Dylan, and ``Jack Flash'' the Rolling Stones. But who knows ? The lyric remains a puzzle open to thousands of spirited interpretations. As a literary artifact of the early 1970s, there isn't anything to compare to ``American Pie.''. Normally, I don't like rankings of literature or songs or even presidents, for that matter. But the fact that the Recording Industry of America and the National Endowment of the Arts chose ``American Pie'' as the fifth greatest song of the 20th century speaks to the composition's importance as an enduring piece of pop art. The other four were ``Over the Rainbow'' ( by Harold Arlen and E.Y ``Yip'' Harburg ), ``White Christmas'' ( by Irving Berlin ), ``This Land is Your Land'' ( by Woody Guthrie ) and ``Respect'' ( by Otis Redding ). That is fine company. Quite simply, ``American Pie'' is one of the greatest songs ever written. And Tuesday the original lyrics found a new home.
( CNN ) Anthony Ray Hinton is thankful to be free after nearly 30 years on Alabama's death row for murders he says he didn't commit. And incredulous that it took so long. Hinton, 58, looked up, took in the sunshine and thanked God and his lawyers Friday morning outside the county jail in Birmingham, minutes after taking his first steps as a free man since 1985. He spoke of unjustly losing three decades of his life, under fear of execution, for something he didn't do. ``All they had to do was to test the gun, but when you think you're high and mighty and you're above the law, you don't have to answer to nobody,'' Hinton told reporters. ``But I've got news for you -- everybody that played a part in sending me to death row, you will answer to God.''. Jefferson County Circuit Court Judge Laura Petro had ordered Hinton released after granting the state's motion to dismiss charges against him. Hinton was convicted of murder in the 1985 deaths of two Birmingham-area, fast-food restaurant managers, John Davidson and Thomas Wayne Vason. But a new trial was ordered in 2014 after firearms experts testified 12 years earlier that the revolver Hinton was said to have used in the crimes could not be matched to evidence in either case, and the two killings couldn't be linked to each other. ``Death Row Stories'' : Hard questions about the U.S. capital punishment system. The state then declined to re-prosecute the case. Hinton was 29 at the time of the killings and had always maintained his innocence, said the Equal Justice Initiative, a group that helped win his release. ``Race, poverty, inadequate legal assistance, and prosecutorial indifference to innocence conspired to create a textbook example of injustice,'' Bryan Stevenson, the group's executive director and Hinton's lead attorney, said of his African-American client. ``I can't think of a case that more urgently dramatizes the need for reform than what has happened to Anthony Ray Hinton.''. Stevenson said the ``refusal of state prosecutors to re-examine this case despite persuasive and reliable evidence of innocence is disappointing and troubling.''. Amnesty report : Executions down but death sentences on the rise. Dressed in a dark suit and blue shirt, Hinton praised God for his release, saying he was sent ``not just a lawyer, but the best lawyers.''. He said he will continue to pray for the families of the murder victims. Both he and those families have suffered a miscarriage of justice, he said. ``For all of us that say that we believe in justice, this is the case to start showing, because I shouldn't have ( sat ) on death row for 30 years,'' he said. Woman who spent 22 years on death row has case tossed. Hinton was accompanied Friday by two of his sisters, one of whom still lives in the Birmingham area. Other siblings will fly to the area to see him soon, Stevenson said. His mother, with whom he lived at the time of his arrest, is no longer living, according to the lawyer. Hinton planned to spend at least this weekend at the home of a close friend. He will meet with his attorneys Monday to start planning for his immediate needs, such as obtaining identification and getting a health checkup, Stevenson said. The plan now is to spend a few weeks to get oriented with freedom and ``sort out what he wants to do,'' Stevenson said.
( CNN ) Pardon us, ``Lost'' fans, but April 8 wasn't only your day. Yes, we know the significance of April 8, 2015, and the alignment of 4:23.42 p.m. on that date to everyone obsessed with the hit ABC show, and we heard about the general geek-outs that were occurring. But don't forget, April 8 was also ``Rex Manning Day.''. Twitter didn't, paying homage to the 1995 film ``Empire Records'' and the character of Rex Manning, played by the very dreamy Maxwell Caulfield. The movie -- also starring Liv Tyler, Anthony LaPaglia and Renée Zellweger -- centers on an independent record store in Delaware where, on April 8, former pop idol Manning is scheduled to make an in-store appearance. Fret not if you missed it, as we have some other dates made famous by films that you aren't going to want to let pass you by :. April 14. Their love affair was doomed like two ships passing in the night, but it was so good while it lasted for Jack and Rose in the 1997 blockbuster movie ``Titanic.''. The sketch Jack does of his beloved is dated April 14, 1912. The Titanic sank on April 15, 1912. April 25. Thanks to the 2000 film ``Miss Congeniality,'' we now know that April 25 is the perfect date. Just don't forget to dress accordingly. October 3. ``Mean Girls Day'' is officially October 3, given that's when Aaron Samuels ( OMG, he is so hot ! ) asks Cady what day it is. Of course, she replies ``It's October 3.''. Honestly, any day is a good day to quote the 2004 film. It's so fetch. October 21, 2015. Buckle up for this one. In the 1989 film ``Back to the Future Part II,'' Marty McFly and the gang travel to October 21, 2015. We hope to be celebrating that in our flying car that we are STILL waiting on, please and thank you.
( CNN ) Their relationship led to jail time for her, but Mary Kay Letourneau Fualaau wants the world to know that she and her husband, Vili Fualaau, are still happily together. She was a married 34-year-old teacher and mother of four in Seattle in 1996 when she began an affair with Fualaau, her 13-year-old student. Letourneau gave birth to her young lover's child and went on to serve more than seven years in prison on charges related to their sexual relationship. On Friday, ABC's ``20/20'' will air an exclusive interview with the couple, who will celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary on May 20. The pair wed soon after she was released from prison in 2005 and are now the parents of two teen girls. According to ABC, during the interview with Barbara Walters, ``Mary Kay tells Walters what makes their marriage work in spite of their huge difference in their age.''. ``She also discusses her surprising plans to teach again, as well as her intentions to have her status as a registered sex offender lifted,'' a posting on the network's site says. ``Vili Fualaau, meanwhile, discusses his bouts with alcoholism, depression and why he believes the system failed him while he was still a minor.''. Letourneau Fualaau is now 53, and her husband is 31.
( CNN ) They're not gon na take it anymore. Really. Twisted Sister says that its 2016 tour will be its last, according to a press release. Next year marks the band's 40th anniversary, and to celebrate, the tour is being titled ``Forty and F*ck It.''. ``It's official : Farewell,'' Twisted Sister singer Dee Snider posted on Facebook. Snider also noted that the band will play with a new drummer, Mike Portnoy of Adrenaline Mob. Portnoy replaces A.J. Pero, who died March 20. The band will also perform two shows in Pero's honor : one at Las Vegas' Hard Rock Hotel and Casino, the other at the Starland Ballroom in Sayreville, New Jersey. The latter is in support of Pero's family. Twisted Sister's biggest hit, ``We're Not Gon na Take It,'' hit the Top Forty in 1984 and was featured in a popular video.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) ``Grace of Monaco,'' starring Nicole Kidman as star-turned-princess Grace Kelly, is heading straight to Lifetime. The critically-panned film, which opened last year's Cannes Film Festival, will premiere on Lifetime on Memorial Day, May 25. After the movie performed poorly in its international engagements, The Weinstein Co., which first purchased U.S. distribution rights at the 2013 Berlin Film Festival, decided to sell it directly to Lifetime rather than book it into U.S. theaters, a source confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter. THR : Grace of Monaco' Cannes review. The film, which was directed by Olivier Dahan and focuses on a period in the early'60s when Monaco was involved in a stand-off over taxes with France and Grace was contemplating a return to Hollywood, was originally scheduled for release in late 2013. Given the names involved, some handicappers had put it on their list of potential Oscar contenders. But when TWC pulled it out of awards contention and shifted its release to March 14, 2014, Dahan lashed out at TWC's Harvey Weinstein, over the movie's final cut, which the director was in the process of completing. ``There are two versions of the film for now, mine and his,'' Dahan complained, continuing, ``They want a commercial film smelling of daisies, taking out anything that exceeds that which is too abrupt, anything that makes it cinematic and breathe with life.''. That planned March release was then scrubbed, when Cannes expressed interest in debuting the director's version of the movie in May. Even before it screened, though, Grace's children blasted the picture as ``needlessly glamorized and historically inaccurate'' and boycotting the Cannes red carpet. THR : The Weinstein Co. nearing deal to keep `Grace of Monaco'. Weinstein didn't attend the movie's premiere either -- explaining that he had been visiting Syrian refugee camps in Jordan as part of a long-scheduled U.N.-sponsored trip. But TWC did strike a new distribution deal for the film in Cannes, agreeing to show Dahan's cut in the U.S., but acquiring rights for just $ 3 million upfront, a $ 2 million discount from its earlier contract. But TWC then did not slot ``Grace of Monaco'' into its fall, 2015 release schedule. Tim Roth costars as Kelly's husband Prince Rainier III, Frank Langella as Kelly's priest and confidante, Parker Posey as Grace's aid, and Paz Vega ( ``Spanglish,'' ``Sex and Lucia'' ) as opera singer Maria Callas. See the original story at The Hollywood Reporter. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) That's some rich ``American Pie.''. The lyrics to the famed Don McLean song sold for $ 1.2 million Tuesday morning at an auction held by Christie's. ``Don McLean's manuscript of `American Pie' achieved the 3rd highest auction price for an American literary manuscript, a fitting tribute to one the foremost singer-songwriters of his generation,'' Christie's Tom Lecky said in a statement. McLean told Rolling Stone that it was time to part with the manuscript. ``I'm going to be 70 this year,'' the singer and songwriter said in February. ``I have two children and a wife, and none of them seem to have the mercantile instinct. I want to get the best deal that I can for them. It's time.''. Over the years, ``American Pie'' has become one of the most dissected and argued-about songs in the pop music canon. McLean has said that the opening lines were inspired by the death of Buddy Holly, but after that, it's all been conjecture -- which hasn't stopped a marching band's worth of analysts from trying to parse the symbols in the 8-minute, 33-second opus. Is the jester Bob Dylan ? The football game Vietnam ? The ``girl who sang the blues'' Janis Joplin ? ( One thing's certain : Buddy Holly's plane was NOT named ``American Pie.'' ). ``Over the years I've dealt with all these stupid questions of `Who's that ?' and `Who's that ?''' McLean said. ``These are things I never had in my head for a second when I wrote the song. I was trying to capture something very ephemeral and I did, but it took a long time.''. The song catapulted the former folk singer to headliner status. The song hit No. 1 in early 1972, despite its length. ( The 45-rpm single split the song in half on its A and B sides. ). The draft that was auctioned is 16 pages : 237 lines of manuscript and 26 lines of typed text, according to Christie's. It includes lines that didn't make the final version as well as extensive notes -- all of which should be revealing, McLean said. The record for a popular music manuscript is held by Bob Dylan's ``Like a Rolling Stone,'' which sold for $ 2 million in June. Opinion : What's so great about `American Pie' ?
( CNN ) Kanye West has settled a lawsuit with a paparazzi photographer he assaulted -- and the two have shaken on it. The photographer, Daniel Ramos, had filed the civil suit against West after the hip-hop star attacked him and tried to wrestle his camera from him in July 2013 at Los Angeles International Airport. West pleaded no contest last year to a misdemeanor count of battery over the scuffle. A judge sentenced him to two years' probation, as well as anger management sessions and community service. Ramos and his lawyer, Gloria Allred, sought general and punitive damages in the civil suit, saying that West had interfered with the photographer's rights to pursue a lawful occupation. The case had been set for trial next week, but Allred issued a statement Tuesday night saying Ramos' side had filed a dismissal ``because the case was settled to the satisfaction of the parties.''. She didn't disclose the details of the settlement other than saying that ``one important aspect of it was an apology by Kanye West to our client, Daniel Ramos.''. Her statement included a picture of West and Ramos shaking hands, which she said happened after the apology. The original incident was caught on video, including the following exchange. ``Kanye ! Kanye ! Talk to me, Kanye !'' Ramos shouts outside a terminal at the Los Angeles airport on the night of July 19, 2013. ``What's' going on ? Why can't we talk to you ? I mean, why ?'' he asks as West moves through a group of paparazzi. ``Now come on, Kanye, I don't want to fight with you,'' he says as West advances toward him. ``I told you, don't talk to me, right,'' West says. ``You're trying to get me in trouble so I step off and have to pay you like $ 250,000.''. West is then seen rushing the photographer and attempting to wrestle his camera from his hands. West retreats after about 15 seconds of scuffling with the photographer. ``We believe that this case sent an important message,'' Allred said. ``Celebrities are not above the law, and they have no right to physically attack someone simply because they were asked a question.''. Beverly Hills Police investigated an incident in January 2014 in which West was accused of assaulting a man at a Beverly Hills chiropractor's office. West avoided criminal charges by reaching a civil settlement with the man. Kanye West apologizes to Beck, Bruno Mars. CNN's Sonya Hamasaki contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Buzz has surrounded HBO's new documentary ``Going Clear : Scientology and the Prison of Belief,'' but Scientologist John Travolta is not a fan. Travolta told the Tampa Bay Times that he has not seen the documentary, ``and I don't really care to.''. ``I've been so happy with my ( Scientology ) experience in the last 40 years that I really don't have anything to say that would shed light on ( a documentary ) so decidedly negative,'' Travolta said. The actor, one of the Church of Scientology's most high-profile members along with stars like Tom Cruise and Kirstie Alley, is premiering his new film, ``The Forger,'' in Clearwater, Florida. The HBO documentary is based on the book ``Going Clear : Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief'' by Lawrence Wright and is critical of the organization, which has close ties to the showbiz industry. Travolta said he believed the doc was a result of ``people who were disgruntled with their experiences'' with the Church of Scientology, which he touted as a positive experience for him. ``I haven't experienced anything that the hearsay has ( claimed ), so why would I communicate something that wasn't true for me ?'' Travolta asked. ``It wouldn't make sense, nor would it for Tom ( Cruise ), I imagine.''. He called Scientology ``brilliant'' and credited the church with helping him to survive the death of his teen son, Jett, after a seizure while the family was on vacation in the Bahamas in 2009. ``Oh, my God, I wouldn't have made it,'' said Travolta, whose wife, Kelly Preston, is also a member. ``Honestly.''
( CNN ) Blues legend B.B. King was hospitalized for dehydration, though the ailment didn't keep him out for long. King's dehydration was caused by his Type II diabetes, but he ``is much better,'' his daughter, Claudette King, told the Los Angeles Times. The legendary guitarist and vocalist released a statement thanking those who have expressed their concerns. ``I'm feeling much better and am leaving the hospital today,'' King said in a message Tuesday. Angela Moore, a publicist for Claudette King, said later in the day that he was back home resting and enjoying time with his grandchildren. ``He was struggling before, and he is a trouper,'' Moore said. ``He wasn't going to let his fans down.''. No more information on King's condition or where he was hospitalized was immediately available. B.B. is short for Blues Boy, part of the name he used as a Memphis disc jockey, the Beale Street Blues Boy. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987, and has 30 Grammy nominations. King, 89, has used various models of Gibson guitars over the years, and named each one of them Lucille. In the 1980s, Gibson officially dropped the model number on the guitar he used last and most. It became a custom-made signature model named Lucille, manufactured exclusively for the ``King of the Blues.''. Some of his hits include ``The Thrill Is Gone,'' which won him his first Grammy in 1970, ``There Must be a Better World Somewhere'' and ``When Love Comes to Town,'' a collaboration with U2. Last year, the bluesman suffered from dehydration and exhaustion after a show in Chicago, forcing him to cancel the remainder of his tour. CNN's Greg Botelho and Sonya Hamasaki contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Rebekah Gregory blinked back tears as she thought about the verdict. It had been almost two years since Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his brother planted bombs at the Boston Marathon, setting off deadly explosions that wounded her and hundreds of others. In court last month, she testified that one of the blasts on that day in 2013 left her lying in the street, staring at her own bones. Now, jurors have found him guilty on all 30 counts he faced for the deadly bombings and their aftermath. But no verdict can ever totally make up for the pain, she said. ``I don't believe that there will ever be justice brought to this, no mater if he does get the death penalty or he remains in prison for the rest of his life,'' she said, crying as she spoke to reporters outside her Texas home. ``I do believe, however, that he should be held accountable for his actions. And I'm very thankful for each of the jury members that are making him do that.''. Gregory, who wrote a widely publicized letter to Tsarnaev after testifying, said the trial has left her and other victims reeling from a flood of emotions as they relive horrifying memories, but it's an important step. ``Everything is being brought up again full force. Our lives will never ever be the same, but I hope with this we can move forward and remember that we are still here for a reason, that there's a bigger plan,'' she said. ``I may be standing on one fake leg, but I'm standing here, stronger than ever, because someone tried to destroy me, and he failed.''. For Gregory and others who lived through the 2013 attack, Wednesday's verdict brought a mix of emotions, from triumphant vows to move forward, to expressions of gratitude, to debate over whether Tsarnaev should be sentenced to death. There were no outbursts inside the federal courthouse in Boston. In fact, there was barely any peripheral noise as people sat on the edges of their seats. As Tsarnaev fidgeted and scratched the back of his head, some survivors and victims' family members lowered their heads and dabbed tears. As CNN's Alexandra Field noted from inside the courtroom, ``They've waited a long time for this.''. The family of Sean Collier, a 26-year-old police officer shot to death in his patrol car on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, were terrorists who ``failed monumentally'' in striking fear in people. ``While today's verdict can never bring Sean back, we are thankful that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev will be held accountable for the evil that he brought to so many families,'' the Collier family said in a written statement. To Richard ``Dic'' Donohue, an MBTA police officer left in a pool of blood after being wounded in a shootout with the Tsarnaevs in Watertown, the verdicts show that ``as a society,.. terrorism will not prevail, and we will hold those accountable for their acts against our nation.''. ``Justice has been served today,'' Donahue tweeted. Survivor Karen Brassard said she needed to attend the trial to help her heal. She doesn't believe Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's brother Tamerlan, now dead, persuaded him to take part in the plot, as the defense contended. Dzhokhar, in her view, was ``all in.''. ``Obviously we are grateful for the outcome today,'' Brassard tolder reporters. ``It's not a happy occasion, but it's something that we can put one more step behind us.''. That sense of turning the page was echoed by Bruce Mendelsohn, who is among those who rushed to save lives at the marathon finish line. The verdicts mean that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is no longer a bombing suspect -- he is now officially a ``convicted killer.''. You can't call it celebration. But there is a newfound peace of mind, at least, in and around Boston. This was a community that suffered greatly after the bombing and subsequent manhunt. And they got through it by rallying around each other, a deep bond reflected in the mantra ``Boston Strong.'' That feeling was reaffirmed all around the city by Wednesday's verdict. And it's evident in people like Heather Abbott, who lost her left leg below the knee. Since then, she's become a living example of someone who wasn't stopped by the terror -- learning not only to walk again, but to run again. ``Nothing can ever replace the lives that were lost or changed forever,'' Abbott said Wednesday on Facebook. ``But at least there is some relief in knowing that justice is served and responsibility will be taken.''. That view was commonly shared. For those hurt -- physically, mentally, emotionally -- by the horrors of 2013, Wednesday was key to their progression. But it's not the end of the road. Just ask Jeff Bauman. The picture of him, bloodied, being rushed through the streets of Boston by good Samaritan Carlos Arredondo, became a symbol of the carnage and heroism from this attack. Even after losing both his legs, Bauman has become a symbol since of resilience -- moving on with his life, by marrying and fathering a child. On Wednesday, Bauman said the verdict ``will never replace the lives that were lost and so dramatically changed.''. ``But it is a relief,'' he added, ``and one step closer to closure.''. CNN's Ann O'Neill and Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A popular Chinese television host known for impromptu satire is now the subject of controversy after being caught on camera cursing the late Chairman Mao Zedong. Bi Fujian, who works for state-run China Central Television, was filmed at a dinner party singing a revolutionary song that eulogizes the Communist Party's early years when he started going off script. ``The Communist Party, Chairman Mao. Don't mention that old son of a b *** h. He made us suffer so bad,'' went Bi's improvised lyrics. The other dinner guests burst into laughter. Bi later apologized. ``My personal speech has led to grave social consequences, and I feel remorseful for that. I hereby sincerely apologize to the public. As a public figure, I shall learn the lesson from this incident, adhering to strict self-discipline,'' he posted on Weibo, China's Twitter-like social media platform. Making disrespectful references to China's leaders in public is considered a taboo in China, even today. And Bi's comment was directed at the man regarded by many as the country's founding father -- despite his controversial reputation. The 75-second video clip, seemingly filmed on the cellphone of another dinner guest, was uploaded on Monday. Since then, it has been removed from video-sharing sites inside China, although it was still accessible on Weibo. It's unclear when the incident occurred, or what the relationsip was between the camera person and Bi. CCTV said it would investigate. ``As a CCTV presenter, Bi Fujian's speech in the online video has led to grave social consequences,'' the network said in a statement posted on its Weibo account. CCTV did not respond to a CNN request for comment. Fondly known as ``Grandpa Bi,'' the 56-year-old TV personality was born and grew up in the Mao era. The song Bi riffed on was part of a ``red'' Peking opera that was first performed in the late 1950s. It was popularized during the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s -- which was launched by Mao -- when China was torn apart by violence and social unrest. The video quickly divided China's online community. Critics said Bi, as an influential public figure, deserved a harsh punishment. But others rushed to his defense, arguing that Bi was simply enjoying himself in a private setting and was set up by whoever uploaded the clip. The video also emerged just a day before the new head of CCTV started his job, leading some to wonder if it were a case of ``a new broom sweeps clean.''. Mao still divides opinion in China. His giant portrait hangs on Beijing's Tiananmen Gate, and thousands flock to see his embalmed body at his mausoleum in Tiananmen Square in the heart of the Chinese capital. But despite this reverence, Mao's is a deeply flawed legacy. Many remember him as a brutal dictator who inspired fear, paranoia and famine, and whose actions resulted in tens of millions of deaths. CNN's Shen Lu contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Tornado sirens blared Wednesday night in Kansas as several storms brought reports of twisters. Spotters reported a tornado about 6 miles northwest of Goddard, which is less than 15 miles west of Wichita. That storm moved to the northeast, missing the city, but posing potential risks to other communities. ``There will be storms.. that pop up all night long,'' said CNN severe weather expert Chad Myers. ``Nighttime tornadoes are the most deadly, are the most dangerous.''. Other reports of tornadoes came in from southwestern Kansas, according to the Storm Prediction Center. Three of the sightings were near Aetna, 125 miles southwest of Wichita. Kansas wasn't the only state affected by the storms. The National Weather Service indicated a tornado may have touched down in the small town of Potosi, Missouri, about 70 miles from St. Louis. CNN affiliate KMOV reported that it had received reports of wind damage and flooding in the town. One Instagram user there posted a photo of a fallen tree. Aerial footage also showed damage to roofs and one street overtaken by water. Not far away from Potosi, Shyler and Christin Strube in Leadington posted an Instagram picture of some unusual dark clouds. And a Twitter user in Farmington got bad news when he went out to his car. ``They weren't kidding when they said baseball size ( hail ),'' Kevin Knox wrote. On Thursday, more storms are expected in the Midwest, Mississippi River Valley, Tennessee River Valley and near the southern Great Lakes, the weather service said. CNN's Sean Morris and AnneClaire Stapleton contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Anyone who has given birth -- or been an observer of the event -- knows how arduous it can be. But to do it live on the Internet ? With two hooves sticking out for several minutes in the midst of labor ?. Luckily, Katie -- a giraffe at the Dallas Zoo -- is a champ. In an hour-long labor captured by 10 cameras and streamed live by Animal Planet, Katie gave birth to a not-so-little baby ( about 6 feet tall ) early Friday evening. There was no immediate word on the newborn's gender or condition. But there were good signs, as seen on the live stream and Dallas Zoo's Twitter feed -- like its ears moving, its efforts to stand, and its nursing ( or at least trying to nurse ) from mom. ``We're so proud,'' the zoo tweeted. The newcomer's debut was a long time coming, especially when you count for Katie's 15-month gestation period -- average for a giraffe, according to Animal Planet. The baby joins a sister, 4-year-old calf Jamie. It wasn't immediately known how many people online saw Katie go into labor and give birth. But the giraffe definitely did have watchers in the form of fellow giraffes who saw the scene unfold from an abutting barn, one of them being Katie's BFF Jade. The fact that the spunky Katie held up so well under the spotlight isn't a total shocker. The zoo describes her as the ``diva'' among a herd of 12 giraffes at the zoo who loves to ``toss her head around'' when she doesn't like something. As Animal Planet noted, ``She's one of the only giraffes at the Dallas Zoo who can stick her long tongue out on cue.''. CNN's Justin Lear contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Where do you go from here ?. The fourth season of ``Game of Thrones'' saw massive battles, major deaths ( Tywin ! ) and White Walkers, but what can fans expect Sunday as we head into a fifth season of one of the most popular shows in HBO history ?. It's the most high-profile premiere yet, airing simultaneously in 170 countries for the first time. ( HBO is a Time Warner company, like CNN. ). We sought out ``Thrones'' aficionado Doug Gross, a writer for Nerdwallet and a former CNN employee, who had a few thoughts on the matter ( beware, TV fans, he has read the books ). ``We're going to start seeing some of the show's major story arcs coming together,'' Gross said ( as confirmed by the executive producers ). ``Already, Stannis has shown up at the Wall to save Jon Snow and the rest of the Night's Watch from the wildlings,'' he said. ``Now we'll see how his quest for the Iron Throne collides with the Watch's supposedly non-political role protecting the realm.''. Tyrion's path should cross with Daenerys' this season, according to the trailers. ``Season five also will be unique in that some of the major story arcs will clearly be moving ahead of where George Martin is in the `Song of Ice and Fire' books,'' Gross pointed out. Executive producer David Benioff told Rolling Stone, ``We are starting to build to a crescendo, which means the battles have to get bigger and things have to get more dramatic.''. Indeed, this fifth season means we're past the halfway point, with the show currently set to end after seven years. The Stark daughters, Arya and Sansa, will be the characters to watch this season, as will Cersei. The world of Westeros is constantly plagued by war, but is there a time when people have just had enough ?. ``Wars are waged by the nobles, but it's the common folk who suffer,'' Gross noted. ``And, this season, we'll get a glimpse of what happens when those common people have had enough.''
( CNN ) The VII Summit of the Americas was supposed to be all about the symbolic handshake between the United States and Cuba. But insert Venezuela into the mix and Panama City, Panama, quickly turns into a ``triangle of tension.''. Heads of state from 35 countries in the Western Hemisphere have met every three years to discuss economic, social or political issues since the creation of the summit in 1994. Cuba has historically been the wrench in the diplomatic machinery, with some Latin American leaders threatening not to attend the Summit of the Americas if the United States and Canada didn't agree to invite President Raul Castro. The tide changed December 17, 2014, when President Barack Obama and Castro announced that more than five decades of Cold War rivalry was ending. Diplomats from both countries immediately began negotiations to establish embassies in Havana and Washington, and the attention immediately focused on the Summit of the Americas, where for the first time since the about-face, Obama and Castro would come face-to-face. The much anticipated handshake between Obama and Castro would steal all the headlines if it wasn't for Cuba's strongest ally, Venezuela. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro recently accused the United States of trying to topple his government and banned former President George Bush, former Vice President Dick Cheney, and Senators Bob Menendez and Marco Rubio from entering Venezuela. ``They can't enter Venezuela because they're terrorists,'' Maduro said, blaming the American politicians for what he called terrorist actions in Iraq, Syria and Vietnam. The U.S. State Department said the allegations of U.S. involvement in a coup plot against Maduro were ``baseless and false.''. Later, Obama issued an executive order sanctioning seven Venezuelan officials for human rights violations and saying the country was a ``threat to national security.''. White House officials said every executive order includes that language, but it has sparked a fiery response from Maduro, who has been collecting millions of signatures demanding the repeal of the order. He also asked for repeal in full-page ads in The New York Times and in a Panama City newspaper. Maduro didn't stop there ; he has been rallying other Latin American leaders, including Bolivian President Evo Morales, Ecuador's Rafael Correa and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega. But perhaps most damning for the United States -- and creating the ``triangle of tension'' at the summit -- Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez has sided publicly with Maduro. ``We reiterate our strong condemnation of the unacceptable and unjustifiable unilateral sanctions imposed against the sister nation of Venezuela and the continued foreign interference with the purpose of creating a climate of instability in that sister nation. We ratify our firmest support to the Bolivarian Revolution and the legitimate government headed by President Nicolás Maduro,'' Rodriguez said. While the world watches for the photo-op of Obama and Castro, it's unclear if more Latin American diplomats will side with Maduro, and for America, the VII Summit of the Americas could go from ``mi casa es su casa'' to a walk into the lion's den.
( CNN ) The outlines of a nuclear deal with Iran are in place. Unfortunately, it seems like too many in President Barack Obama's administration have forgotten that the only reason this terrorist-supporting state came to the negotiating table in the first place was because of tough sanctions imposed by the U.S. Congress. Indeed, the reality is that President Obama is giving up enormous leverage in his nuclear deal with Iran -- and I worry we will lose it for good. Bleeding money, and faced with falling oil prices, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei gave his government rare permission to bargain with the ``Great Satan'' -- the United States. But just as U.S. and European sanctions were forcing Iran to the nuclear crossroads, President Obama has given Tehran an easy exit. For Khamenei, the ``framework'' announced last week looks like a win-win : He gets to keep his nuclear infrastructure, and in return gets billions of dollars in sanctions relief. Congress offered a better strategy when the top Democrat on the Foreign Affairs Committee, Eliot Engel, and I introduced a bill to hit Tehran with its toughest sanctions yet. Unfortunately, this bill -- which passed the House in a 400-20 vote -- was blocked in the Senate last year, despite the fact that it would have sharpened the Ayatollah's choice : Dismantle your nuclear weapons program or see your economy collapse. President Obama once had a tougher line, when in 2012 he said : ``The deal we'll accept is they end their nuclear program. It's very straightforward.'' But the framework announced last week does nothing of the sort. Negotiated between Iran and the United States, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany, the framework concedes that Iran can maintain ``a mutually defined enrichment program,'' operate thousands of centrifuges, and continue its research and development of nuclear technologies. The deal currently on the table would hand Tehran billions of previously sanctioned funds, filling the coffers of the world's biggest state sponsor of terrorism, with strongholds in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Lebanon. Meanwhile, the strictest restrictions on Iran's enrichment will expire in only 10 years, despite the President receiving a letter from 367 Members of Congress -- both Democrats and Republicans -- in which we insisted that ``verifiable constraints on Iran's nuclear program must last for decades.'' The President admitted as much when he conceded that ``in year 13, 14, 15, they have advanced centrifuges that enrich uranium fairly rapidly, and at that point the breakout times would have shrunk almost down to zero.''. But as bad as these concessions are, the most concerning aspect of the April 2 deal is that it lacks tough safeguards to stop Iran from cheating. The key question is this : Will the inspectors at the International Atomic Energy Agency be allowed to inspect these military sites without warning ? Because if the IAEA can not conduct ``anytime, anywhere'' inspections, Iran will be able to ``sneak out'' to a bomb. It has been done before. Remember, in 1994, when President Bill Clinton told us he had struck a deal with North Korea that would ``make the United States, the Korean Peninsula, and the world safer'' ? President Clinton sounded a little too much like the current Secretary of State John Kerry, when he promised that the North Korea agreement ``does not rely on trust'' and that ``compliance will be certified by the International Atomic Energy Agency.'' Twelve years after these assurances, North Korea detonated its first nuclear bomb. Iran could easily do the same. The best predictor of its future behavior is its past behavior -- between 2004 and 2009, the Iranian government built a huge centrifuge facility named Fordo under a mountain deep in the Iranian desert. Luckily for the world, Western intelligence agencies discovered Tehran's deception. But we can not rely on such luck in the future, particularly when Iran still hasn't come clean about its history of secret weapons development and is still dodging basic questions from the IAEA. Let's not forget the other things Iran has been doing while its diplomats have been bargaining with the U.S. and its partners. While Iran was showing its friendly new face to the world, it has simultaneously been helping Syrian dictator Bashar al Assad kill his own people, training and funding the terrorist group Hezbollah, which aims to annihilate Israel, and supporting the Houthis, who started a civil war and overthrew the government in Yemen -- one of America's more reliable counterterrorism partners in the region. If President Obama is going to hand over billions of dollars to a regime that behaves like this, run by a man who publicly declares : ``Death to America,'' it has to be a better deal. The framework we have before us keeps Iran's nuclear door well and truly open.
Waterloo, Iowa ( CNN ) Martin O'Malley and Jim Webb share little in common. Both Democrats are toying with a presidential run, both are facing long odds in that endeavor, and both shared a stage at the Polk County Democrats Awards Dinner in Des Moines, Iowa, on Friday night. But, as was evident at the dinner, that is where the similarities end. O'Malley is a former mayor and Maryland governor who seems most at home when he is pressing the flesh at events and introducing himself to anyone who would extend their hand. Webb, on the contrary, is a decorated Vietnam War veteran and former senator from Virginia who comes across as more stoic and, at times, uncomfortable with retail politics. Before the event, O'Malley confidently cruised the union hall. He took selfies with young environmental activists and chatted with sometimes tepid supporters who admitted their other political allegiances. ``It is a marathon, not a sprint,'' one man told O'Malley, a nod to his long odds in the 2016 Democratic nomination process. ``Yes, it is ; it's a marathon,'' O'Malley responded. ``Welcome to Iowa,'' said another man. ``We hope to see you here more.''. O'Malley smiled, ``Thanks a lot. I hope you do, too.''. Webb wasn't nearly as active, opting instead to stay close to his seat near the front of the venue and chat with a small group of people around him. As Webb cut into his sizable helping of pork, O'Malley was standing directly behind him, shaking hands. The former Virginia senator, after possibly seeing O'Malley making the rounds, did stand up and shake hands with a few of the diehard Democratic activists in the room. ``Seven months old,'' Zach Smith, a new father, said of his baby boy, Noah. ``I have a bunch of kids. The youngest one is 8 years old,'' Webb said. The baby looked up at the senator. ``He is pretty calm,'' Webb remarked, himself calm. Despite coming from bordering states, Webb and O'Malley don't know each other. When they passed each other in a Des Moines hotel lobby on Friday morning, it was the first time the two had met. That said, the two Democrats find themselves in the same position. Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state who is set to announce her presidential bid Sunday, leads every national and state poll of the Democratic field. She has begun to build a sizable staff and is expected to have massive amounts of money to win the nomination. O'Malley and Webb are both looking up at her. In a March CNN/ORC poll ( PDF ) of national Democrats, only 1 % said O'Malley and Webb were their top choice. In a January poll from Bloomberg Politics and the Des Moines Register ( PDF ), O'Malley was at 1 % among Iowa Democrats, while Webb found himself at 3 %. The speaking portion of the night further showed Webb and O'Malley's differences. Webb, who spoke before the governor, gave a more subdued, biographical speech that mentioned three areas he would focus on if he ran for president : Basic governance, economic justice and criminal justice reform. To the approval of the audience, Webb promised to come back to Iowa regularly. ``I am committing to you right now,'' he said, ``we are going to go over the whole state.''. And the biggest applause came near the end of his speech, when he urged his party to get back to talking about issues. ``Money is ruining our political process,'' Webb said to a chorus of applause and ``hear hear.''. O'Malley, on the other hand, gave a speech littered with intentional applause lines. At points, the governor would deliberately stop to allow for the silence to be filled with clapping hands. ``When the American Dream is denied, our lives shrink, our hopes fade, and our days unfold not in the light of possibility but in the darkness of fear,'' O'Malley said, delivering the same stump speech he usually gives. ``To make the dream true again, we must fight for better wages for all workers, so that Americans can support their families on what they earn.''. As the event wound down, Webb and O'Malley stuck around to shake more hands and meet people. O'Malley, who spent the previous day in Iowa, left Friday night for New York. Webb, who is in the midst of a four-day trip to Iowa, stayed in Des Moines and headlined a veterans event on Saturday morning in Waterloo. Webb regularly speaks about his service and appeared more at home at the event. He told war stories with young and old veterans and spoke at length about how the government could be doing more for veterans. He also touted his work on passing the 21st Century G.I. Bill of Rights, a 2008 act that expanded education benefits for veterans, and stressed that more needed to be done. ``You want the next greatest generation, give them the same opportunity the the greatest generation had,'' Webb said to applause. ``If you really want to thank them, hire a vet.''. After the event, Webb shook hands with people veterans who told stories about dropped benefits and problems with the Department of Veterans Affairs. He occasionally smiled and thanked people for coming on a sunny Saturday morning. Asked whether he enjoys the retail politics that is crucial in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire, Webb smiled. Skepticism of retail politics is not new for Webb. As a one-term Democratic senator, Webb was rumored to loathe the burdens that came with campaigning, namely fundraising and retail politics. This time, he put on a rosy view. ``This is the good part of it, ``Webb said, with a laugh. ``Talking to the media, that is not always the good part.''
Charleston, South Carolina ( CNN ) Police officers Saturday accompanied the hearse carrying the body of Walter Scott to his South Carolina funeral service, where hundreds of mourners celebrated his life and death as a catalyst for change in America. A pair of officers on motorcycles were part of the large procession delivering the father of four -- who was fatally shot in the back by a police officer -- to a service open to the public. An overflow crowd gathered on a humid and occasionally rainy April afternoon at W.O.R.D. Ministries Christian Center in Summerville, which has a capacity of about 300 people. The flag-draped casket of the U.S. Coast Guard veteran was wheeled inside the church as Scott's relatives and friends followed. Some dabbed tears ; others embraced. Hundreds, including local officials, assembled inside the packed sanctuary -- in corridors, under an awning at the entrance, wherever they could stand. Silence filled the vast space as Scott's daughter Samantha read a poem of love dedicated to her father. Anthony Scott said God had selected his brother as a candidate for change in America. ``The change will come,'' he said, bringing to the crowd to its feet. The head of the church, George Hamilton, spoke of how Scott had brought members of his family to the church, of the agony of not only losing a family member but having to watch it happen on video. The death of Scott, who was black, at the hands of a white police officer was ``motivated by racial prejudice,'' Hamilton said. It was ``an act of overt racism.''. ``Hate came because Walter was an African-American,'' he said. Hamilton said his remarks were not meant as an indictment of law enforcement, but he singled out the officer who killed Scott as a ``disgrace to the North Charleston Police Department.''. ``There is gong to be change,'' he said. ``Walter's death will not be in vain.''. After the service, pallbearers gently lifted Scott's casket into the hearse. Crowds poured from the church. A slow-moving procession of black cars then made its way to Live Oak Memorial Gardens in Charleston for the private burial. Chris Stewart, an attorney for the Scott family, said the death represented more than an race issue. ``It's a human issue,'' he said. ``We're getting emails from people in Arkansas telling us, `I'm a white male, and I'm supporting this family.' Their son is going to be remembered for changing the way we look at each other.''. On Friday night, Scott's open casket was draped with an American flag, and he was in a dark suit for his private visitation in Charleston. A Dallas Cowboys banner -- his favorite NFL team -- was placed outside the casket, and a figurine of a Cowboys player stood at his side. But Scott's family was missing. They needed privacy, said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley, who attended. A week ago, Scott was killed in North Charleston after getting pulled over for a broken taillight. A passer-by caught the shooting on cell phone video, and Officer Michael Slager was swiftly charged with murder. He was fired and faces life in prison or the death penalty if convicted. Who was Walter Scott ?. The video shows Scott running from an officer, who fires eight shots. Scott is struck five times ; he falls to the ground. ``Nothing in this video demonstrates that the officer's life or the life of another was threatened,'' National Urban League President Marc Morial said. ``The question here is whether the use of force was excessive.''. But one witness is speaking of a struggle before the shooting. And at least one expert believes a murder charge may not hold up. On Thursday, Gwen Nichols told CNN's Brian Todd that she saw Scott and Slager scuffling at the entrance to a vacant lot. ``It was like a tussle type of thing, like, you know, like, `What do you want ?' or `What did I do ?' type of thing,'' Nichols said. ``I didn't hear Mr. Slager saying `Stop !'''. Nichols' account has similarities to Slager's. He had told investigators that he had tussled with Scott over his Taser and that he feared for his safety. A timeline of events. Criminal defense attorney Paul Callan said he believes Slager's defense will play up the reported scuffle in arguing that this is not a murder case. ``Defense attorneys will say this was a heat of passion shooting -- ( that ) this was something that he did suddenly after some kind of an altercation, a physical altercation with a suspect,'' Callan said. ``And that would constitute manslaughter under law, as opposed to murder, and it makes a huge difference in sentencing.''. In South Carolina, a murder conviction requires a measure of premeditation. But the account from the witness who recorded the cell phone video, Feidin Santana, paints a different picture. He was walking to work when he saw Slager on top of Scott, he said, who was on the ground. Santana said he could hear the sound of a Taser in use. He said he didn't see Scott go after the Taser, as Slager initially claimed. He said he believes Scott was trying to get away. ``Mr. Scott never tried to fight,'' Santana said. Neither the struggle nor the use of a Taser was captured on video, because Santana started recording shortly after that. Investigators from the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division found troubling inconsistencies from the very start, it said in a statement. ``We believed early on that there was something not right about what happened in that encounter,'' division Chief Mark Keel said in a statement. ``The cell phone video shot by a bystander confirmed our initial suspicions.''. Slager's lawyer, Andy Savage, has complained that he ``has not received the cooperation from law enforcement that the media has.''. Savage's office said in a statement that it has yet to receive ``any investigative documents, audio or video tapes, other than a copy of Mr. Slager's arrest warrant.''. The news release added that the lawyer has been advised that the police union that Slager belongs to ``is no longer involved in the case.''. Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said Slager's wife, Jamie, who is eight months' pregnant, and his mother had a visit with him at the county detention center Friday. Slager was being held in isolation and being ``monitored for his mental health,'' Cannon said. In a statement, one of Slager's lawyers said the meeting lasted about an hour. ``His wife and mom were tearful but strong, and they were all very grateful for the chance to see him in person, even if separated by a thick pane of glass,'' the statement said. ``They held up family photos -- and even Jamie's ultrasound from earlier that day -- to remind him of all those who love him. Throughout the visit, Michael was focused on Jamie and their baby and was very relieved to know that she is being shown so much love and support by their families.''. A second video, taken from a police dash cam, has also emerged from the day Scott died. It shows moments before the shooting, when things seemed to be going smoothly between Scott and Slager. Scott apparently tells the officer that he has no insurance on the vehicle, and Slager returns to his car to do paperwork. Then Scott gets out of the car and runs out of the camera's frame. Scott was the subject of a bench warrant over $ 18,104.43 in unpaid child support at the time of the stop, according to court records. That was why he ran, lawyers for the family said after the funeral service. U.S. Rep. James Clyburn, D-South Carolina, told reporters outside the service that Scott lost a $ 35,000-a-year job the first time he was jailed for failing to pay child support. ``He said it was the best job he's ever had,'' Clyburn said. ``Now you have to ask.. if you want to collect child support, there's got to be income. And you ain't going to make much income from jail. It seems to me that we need to take a look to how to deal with that issue without causing unemployment and the loss of freedom.''. On Friday afternoon, police met with a man who was in Scott's car, but the passenger's name wasn't in a police report obtained by CNN. He was detained briefly after the shooting, one officer wrote in the report. Scott family attorney Chris Stewart said he was a co-worker and friend. But he did not identify the passenger by name. On Friday, a few mourners trickled into the Fielding Home for Funerals. A white banner with a blue star near Scott's casket displayed his favorite NFL team. It said : ``Tradition, the Cowboys way.''. ``This is a heartbreaking tragedy for everyone in our community,'' said Riley, the mayor. ``It breaks everyone's hearts.''. CNN's Polo Sandoval and Martin Savidge reported from Charleston, and Ben Brumfield and Ray Sanchez reported and wrote in Atlanta and New York.
Washington ( CNN ) Washington was rocked late Thursday by shootings -- one at the gates of the U.S. Census Bureau's headquarters and another in a popular area packed with restaurant patrons. The shootings were connected, authorities said. They began with what authorities believe was a domestic kidnapping incident, according to D.C. Police Chief Cathy Lanier. The suspect's vehicle was spotted outside the Census Bureau, which is in Suitland, Maryland. A guard apparently approached the vehicle and saw two people arguing. That guard was then shot at least once in the upper body, said Prince George's County Fire Department spokesman Mark Brady. The guard was in extremely critical condition, according to Brady. The police chief said the suspect then fled the scene. Officers picked up the chase, and the suspect fired gunshots at multiple locations, Lanier said. The chase ended in a crash on Washington's busy H Street. A shootout ensues, Lanier said. An officer and the suspect were wounded, according to the police chief. Both were conscious and talking when they left the scene. ``Right now, we have every reason to believe that the car that we have in this last incident here is the same car involved and the same person involved in the kidnapping,'' she said. Lanier told reporters the kidnapping victim was located and is in good condition. She did not identify the suspect, nor the guard, nor the officer who were injured. Steve Brusk reported from Washington. Dana Ford wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Greg Botelho also contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) An Iranian military observation aircraft flew within 50 yards of an armed U.S. Navy helicopter over the Persian Gulf this month, sparking concern that top Iranian commanders might not be in full control of local forces, CNN has learned. The incident, which has not been publicly disclosed, troubled U.S. military officials because the unsafe maneuver could have triggered a serious incident. It also surprised U.S. commanders because in recent months Iranian forces have conducted exercises and operations in the region in a professional manner, one U.S. military official told CNN. ``We think this might have been locally ordered,'' the official said. The incident took place as the U.S. and other world powers meet with Iran in Switzerland to negotiate a deal limiting Tehran's nuclear program. At the same time, Iran has been active in supporting proxies in several hotspots in the Persian Gulf and neighboring regions. The Navy MH-60R armed helicopter was flying from the deck of the USS Carl Vinson on a routine patrol in international airspace, the official said. An unarmed Iranian observation Y-12 aircraft approached. The Iranian aircraft made two passes at the helicopter, coming within 50 yards, before the helicopter moved off, according to the official. The official said the helicopter deliberately broke off and flew away in a `predictable' manner so the Iranians could not misinterpret any U.S. intentions. The Navy helicopter was in radio contact with the ship during the encounter, but there was no contact between the two aircraft and no shots were fired. The Navy crew took photos of the incident but the military is not releasing them. The U.S. administration is considering a potential demarche protest against Iran, the official said. CNN has reached out to Iranian officials but has not received a response. This type of Iranian observation aircraft generally operates over the Gulf several times a month. But after the recent incident, U.S. naval intelligence did not see it again for two weeks, leading to the conclusion that the incident may have been ordered by a local commander who was then reprimanded by higher-ups. The Pentagon has noted for the last several years that most encounters with the Iranian military at sea or in air are conducted professionally, but that some missions run by Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps forces have been too aggressive against U.S. forces in the area. The U.S. military's concern has been that one of these incidents could escalate into a military encounter. This incident ``might have been buffoonery'' the official said, but there is always a risk from such actions. The incident comes as the Navy patrols the Gulf of Aden to watch for Iranian ships the U.S. believes are trying to bring weapons to resupply the Houthi rebels in Yemen. The Navy would share such intelligence with Saudi Arabia, a second U.S. official told CNN.
New York ( CNN ) When Liana Barrientos was 23 years old, she got married in Westchester County, New York. A year later, she got married again in Westchester County, but to a different man and without divorcing her first husband. Only 18 days after that marriage, she got hitched yet again. Then, Barrientos declared ``I do'' five more times, sometimes only within two weeks of each other. In 2010, she married once more, this time in the Bronx. In an application for a marriage license, she stated it was her ``first and only'' marriage. Barrientos, now 39, is facing two criminal counts of ``offering a false instrument for filing in the first degree,'' referring to her false statements on the 2010 marriage license application, according to court documents. Prosecutors said the marriages were part of an immigration scam. On Friday, she pleaded not guilty at State Supreme Court in the Bronx, according to her attorney, Christopher Wright, who declined to comment further. After leaving court, Barrientos was arrested and charged with theft of service and criminal trespass for allegedly sneaking into the New York subway through an emergency exit, said Detective Annette Markowski, a police spokeswoman. In total, Barrientos has been married 10 times, with nine of her marriages occurring between 1999 and 2002. All occurred either in Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey or the Bronx. She is believed to still be married to four men, and at one time, she was married to eight men at once, prosecutors say. Prosecutors said the immigration scam involved some of her husbands, who filed for permanent residence status shortly after the marriages. Any divorces happened only after such filings were approved. It was unclear whether any of the men will be prosecuted. The case was referred to the Bronx District Attorney's Office by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of Homeland Security's Investigation Division. Seven of the men are from so-called ``red-flagged'' countries, including Egypt, Turkey, Georgia, Pakistan and Mali. Her eighth husband, Rashid Rajput, was deported in 2006 to his native Pakistan after an investigation by the Joint Terrorism Task Force. If convicted, Barrientos faces up to four years in prison. Her next court appearance is scheduled for May 18.
( CNN ) #UporDown ?. That's the trending question on social media, thanks to a photo of a cat coming down some stairs. Or is it going up some stairs ?. ( And you thought you were done with this kind of optical illusion free-for-all after #TheDress. ). The picture was apparently uploaded on Imgur a few days ago and has caught fire thanks to a post on the website 9gag. com. Some people are noting the apparent motion of the cat. Others are commenting about the construction of the stairs. ( Nobody has mentioned that some cats we could name would be more likely to stop in the middle of the steps and play with a mousie. ). Of course, where there's public debate, there are advertisers waiting to take advantage of the situation. Taxes ? Now, those are REALLY confusing.
( CNN ) I remember the day I stopped praying. It was the day after my little brother, Jimmy, died of cancer. He was 25. I was so angry at God. I was 27 at the time, and, like most young people I had stopped going to church. But, on that day -- that terrible day -- I desperately needed to understand why God took my brother. I called the nearest Catholic church, looking for a priest. A lady picked up the phone. ``Can I talk with Father ?'' I asked. I wish I could say her answer was ``yes.''. Instead, she asked me if I was a member of that particular parish. ``Does it matter ?'' I asked. ( At the time I lived far from my home parish. ) I don't remember how she responded, but the answer about my being able to see Father was clearly no. I don't know if all Catholic churches would have shut me out, but I figured, at the time, it was part of the long list of rules the Vatican required Catholic leaders to follow. I cried for a bit, then decided I would never ask God for anything. Clearly, his conduits on Earth did not have time for me -- a lifelong Catholic -- and sinner -- so why would he ?. Ever since, I've considered myself a lapsed Catholic. Until Pope Francis. There is something about Francis that's reawakened my faith. And it's not because he opened the floodgates to allow sin in the eyes of the church. He still argues against things I passionately support, but I find myself -- like many other lapsed Catholics -- enthralled. Recently I had the pleasure of meeting one of the Pope's newly appointed cardinals. His name is Cardinal Gerald Lacroix. The 57-year-old presides at the Basilica Cathedral of Notre Dame in Quebec City. One of my first questions : What is it about Pope Francis ?. ``Every person is a mystery you know.. But what's evident is this man is living with such freedom, such inner freedom. He's himself. He's in tune with the Lord,'' Lacroix told me. ``Those close to him say he's up close to 4 in the morning to prepare his daily Mass, which is at 7 in the morning on the weekdays. So that's almost three hours of prayer, preparation and silence before the Lord and the word of God. Wow, that really fine-tunes you to start off a day.''. Perhaps that's how the Pope stays humble. Why he defies tradition and washes the feet of the disabled, women and those of other faiths. Why he ordered showers to be built for the poor in St. Peter's Square. All of this is appealing, but it's more than that. In my mind, it's his tone. When Pope Francis said, ``If a person is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to judge ?'' The comment took me aback. Homosexuality has long been a taboo subject for the Vatican, yet Pope Francis uttered those welcoming words. Lacroix likened the Pope's approach to Jesus. ``Jesus didn't judge. Jesus did not come as a judge. He came as someone who preached and talked about the love of God.''. Those kinds of answers are so different in my experience, but I understand why more conservative Catholics worry. If the Pope does not judge, then who will tell us who is a sinner and who is not ?. ``I hear that sometimes, too,'' Lacroix told me. ``I think Pope Francis is conservative in the right way. You have to be conservative enough to come back to what is the foundation : that's the Gospel. You can not reproach Pope Francis of not living the Gospel, or not preaching the truth of the Gospel.''. But isn't homosexuality a sin in the eyes of the church ?. ``There is room for everyone. The door is open,'' Cardinal Lacroix insisted. ``Of course you know that the Catholic Church will never promote same sex marriage, but do we respect homosexual persons ? Do we welcome them ? Do we accompany them ? Of course. But to respect the Church and its teaching, which is based on a long tradition and also the word of God, we will not go so far as to bless. But that doesn't mean we reject.''. That last sentiment -- ``that doesn't mean we reject.'' -- did it for me. I finally understood why Pope Francis reawakened my faith. I always felt my church would reject me for committing the smallest of sins. Like calling a priest at a church that was not my home parish. Like not covering my head with a traditional veil at Easter. Like accidentally eating meat on Holy Friday. Like supporting the use of contraception. But as Lacroix told me, Jesus walked with sinners until the very end. He did not banish them to fires of hell, for He refused to give up on anyone. The Cardinal's last words to me : ``I'm trying to do my best on ( the ) local level -- to have an open ear to what the church and world are experiencing. To see how we can today respond to those needs. I want people to see me, and the church, as an open heart to grow together. Not a church that's imposing -- we have nothing to impose -- we have someone to propose : the Lord Jesus and his Gospel.''. I can't wait to go church next Sunday. And, yes, I will bow my head and pray for forgiveness, and if I'm worthy, Christ's love.
( CNN ) Mullah Mohammed Omar is ``still the leader'' of the Taliban's self-declared Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. That appears to be the primary message of a biography, just published by the Taliban, of the reclusive militant who is credited with founding the group in the early 1990s. The Taliban's ``Cultural Commission'' released the 11-page document in several different translations on the movement's website, ostensibly to commemorate the 19th anniversary of an April 4, 1996, meeting in Afghanistan's Kandahar province when an assembly of Afghans swore allegiance to Omar. Several Afghan observers say the biography is aimed at dispelling rumors of Omar's demise. ``There have been a lot of rumors lately about him. Some people are saying that he is not alive,'' said Sayyed Muhammad Akbar Agha, a former Taliban insider who has written an autobiography about his days with the movement. ``I think the Taliban thought it was an important time to release his biography to give assurances that he is alive and present,'' Agha told CNN in a telephone interview. Bergen : Why U.S. must stay in Afghanistan past 2016. The biography also appears to be an attempt to remind the world of the Afghan's jihadi leadership credentials, at a time when ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi has declared himself ``caliph'' of the world's Muslims. ``The Taliban has a huge leadership problem at a critical political moment,'' said Graeme Smith, a Kabul-based analyst for the International Crisis Group. ``Another caliph has announced himself to the world, and the Taliban has been silent. And that is getting noticed by militants across South Asia.''. Omar was famously camera-shy during the Taliban's six-year rule over most of Afghanistan. To this day, there are only a handful of photographs of the one-eyed leader. ``He never was actively involved in any of these propaganda campaigns. No publicity. No interviews. He never used the Internet,'' said Rahimullah Yusufzai, a Pakistani journalist and expert on Afghanistan who once interviewed Osama bin Laden. Omar then all but disappeared after a U.S.-led bombing campaign routed the Taliban from Kabul in 2001. Washington has offered a $ 10 million reward for his capture. The Taliban have released written statements purportedly made by the leader-in-hiding. But years without any video or audio recordings of the fugitive have led to growing speculation that Omar may have died. The biography challenges rumors of Omar's death by offering a description of his daily work schedule, which begins with prayers, study of the Quran, and then delivering ``orders in a specific way to his Jihadi commanders.''. The publication also seeks to fill in some of the gaps about the militant's early years, including the detail that his ``preferred weapon of choice'' was the RPG-7, a rocket-propelled grenade. According to the biography, Omar was born in 1960 in a village called Chah-i-Himmat in Afghanistan's Kandahar province. His father, a ``well-known and respected erudite and social figure,'' died only five years later, apparently of natural causes. Omar studied at a religious school, or madrassa, run by his uncle. The rise of the Communist Party in Afghanistan, and the subsequent 1979 Soviet invasion, interrupted the young man's studies and propelled him into the arms of the armed Afghan opposition known as the mujahedeen. For the next decade, Omar commanded rebel groups ``against the invading Russians and their internal communist puppets,'' according to the biography. Along the way, he was wounded a number of times and was blinded in his right eye. In one battle, the biography claims, Omar and a fighter named Mullah Biradar Akhund destroyed four Soviet tanks, even though they were armed with only four RPG rounds. The Taliban biography makes no mention of the fact that the U.S., allied with Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, helped arm and bankroll the mujahedeen until the Soviet army withdrew in defeat in 1989. Afghan historians have documented the rapid rise of the Taliban in the chaotic years after the communist government in Kabul collapsed in 1992. The movement of warriors who identified themselves as religious scholars emerged to bring order to a country being ripped apart by rival mujahedeen warlords who battled one another for power. The Taliban biography says that Omar and his compatriots ``launched their struggle and fight against corruption and anarchy'' after an initial meeting in Kandahar in June 1994. Two years later, the Taliban captured Kabul and began imposing its austere interpretation of Islamic law on the rest of the country. While the document denounces the Taliban's post-9 / 11 overthrow at the hands of a U.S.-backed coalition of rival Afghan fighters, it makes no mention of the Taliban's alliance with bin Laden and al Qaeda. During a decade in exile, the Saudi-born bin Laden continued to release periodic video and audio statements until he was killed by U.S. raid on his hideout in the Pakistani city of Abbottabad in 2011. Though Taliban militants have continued to battle the U.S.-backed government across Afghanistan, Omar has not been seen or heard from in years. The movement claims he continues to oversee a Taliban leadership council, judiciary and nine executive commissions, as well as military commanders who operate in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. Exclusive : ISIS `recruits Afghans' in chilling video. CNN's Masoud Popalzai contributed to this report from Kabul, Afghanistan.
( CNN ) An Amnesty International report is calling for authorities to address the number of attacks on women's rights activists in Afghanistan. The report, entitled ``Their Lives on the Line,'' examines the persecution of activists and other champions of women's rights not only by the Taliban and tribal warlords, but also by government officials. Its publication is timely. The brutal murder of Farkhunda, a young woman in Afghanistan, whose body was burnt and callously chucked into a river in Kabul, shocked the world. Accused of burning pages from the Muslim holy book, the Quran, many protested the 27-year-old's innocence. But what also made international headlines was the fact that for the first time in history, women in Afghanistan became pallbearers, hoisting the victim's coffin on their shoulders draped with headscarves, under the gazes of men ; unreservedly sobbing and shouting messages of women's solidarity as they marched along the streets. In a country ranked in 2011 by a Thomson Reuters Foundation poll as the most dangerous place in the world for women, this feminist act seemed perilous. Latest figures suggest they were risking their lives to be heard. In 2013, the U.N. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan ( UNAMA ) released statistics that showed the number of women killed in the country had increased by 20 % from the previous year, although the number of civilian victims had decreased, said Amnesty in the report. The Special Representative of the U.N. Secretary-General in Afghanistan at the time, Jan Kubis, told the U.N. Security Council that ``the majority ( of women killed ) is linked to domestic violence, tradition, culture of the country. ``Women activists have been deliberately targeted.''. And according to the human rights group, little support has come from those in power. ``The Afghan government has done very little to protect them,'' Amnesty's Afghanistan researcher, Horia Mosadiq, tells CNN. ``Perpetrators almost always walk free, and threats reported by women rights defenders are often simply ignored. ``Many women defenders we spoke to said that even when they received some protection from authorities, it was often significantly less than what male counterparts or colleagues were afforded.''. During the attack on Farkhunda, ``many eyewitnesses have testified that police officers stood idly by while this woman was being lynched and killed,'' says Mosadiq. Twenty-six people were arrested and thirteen police officials suspended in connection with the attack, but she argues that this is insufficient. ``Suspending police officers is not enough, those who failed in their duty must also be held to account -- anything less will just encourage further mob violence.''. But what is striking is the resilience of the activists, who continue their work despite their lives being on the line. ``It was a remarkable moment,'' says Mosadiq, recalling the female protesters at Farkhunda's funeral. ``Unlike anything I have seen in my decades of campaigning for women's rights in our country.''. Selay Ghaffer, 32, is a women's rights activist and spokesperson for the Solidarity Party of Afghanistan -- a small but outspoken political party based in Kabul and twenty provinces that fights for issues such as democracy, social justice and women's rights. The party was the first to be banned in the country for accusing Afghan leaders and commanders of war crimes and demanding that they be brought to justice. Taking part in Farkhunda's funeral and protests against her death, she tells CNN that despite the onslaught of violence against Afghan women over the years, this was the worst case. But the opportunity was taken to deliver a clear message. ``So the women of Afghanistan showed that we will not keep silent anymore.. And we are not ready to accept more brutality and violence against women,'' said Ghaffer. ``So this is why we decided to carry the dead body of Farkhunda on our own shoulders and show to the world that not only men can do it and somehow broke the traditionalism that ( a ) man has to do this job.''. Surprisingly, she says that male onlookers supported their mission, although they are in the minority overall in the country. ``Men ( at the funeral ), they said you have to do this, because this is how you can change the hatred in Afghanistan. ``Without men, it is not possible for women to get their rights,'' she says. ``So these men and women were working together. But at the same time, women need to step forward for their rights.''. Mosadiq says the fight for women's rights was established a while ago. ``Women's activism in Afghanistan is nothing new -- the women's rights movement has grown substantially since 2001, and has fought for and achieved some very significant gains. ``These gains are under threat now, however, and some are even rolled back. It's essential that the government and its international partners do not allow this to happen.''. Ghaffer herself has been subject to threats because of her work, received through emails and phone calls, at her home and office. But she says she knew what she was getting herself into. ``I knew it wasn't an easy task. There might be many challenges and you have to lose your life when you are going and struggling for your rights. ``As a woman, I want to struggle more ( for my rights ), I want to have more people around me, to struggle with me.''. Mosadiq says it is too soon to talk about a revolution, although the response to Farkhunda's killing, from both men and women, has been a ``silver lining.''. Ghaffer, however, believes this is the beginning of an uprising -- but she says it needs to keep moving. Interestingly, it was a man in her life that motivated her to fight. ``I must say strongly that it was my father ( who inspired me ), who is not any more with me, because he.. died three months ago,'' she says. ``He always told me that women always suffered in this country,'' she says, her voice overcome with emotion. ``And you have to struggle for your rights. Because in this traditional, patriarchal society, nobody will give these rights ( to ) you.''. She realizes how lucky she is, she adds, in a society where she has witnessed men -- fathers and husbands -- oppressing women as opposed to being their role models. Ghaffer maintains that silence is an injustice to women, not least to the victim of the recent, horrific mob violence. ``So if I should not do it, if another sister is not doing it, then who will do it ? Who will get the rights for us ? We have to struggle for it. ``If we keep our silence, more Farkhundas will be killed in this country.''
( CNN ) Hip-hop star Nelly has been arrested on drug charges in Tennessee after a state trooper pulled over the private bus in which he was traveling, authorities said. The 40-year-old rapper from St. Louis, who shot to fame 15 years ago with the track ``Country Grammar,'' has been charged with felony possession of drugs, simple possession of marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia, the Tennessee Department of Safety and Homeland Security said. The state trooper stopped the bus carrying Nelly and five other people on Interstate 40 in Putnam County on Saturday because it wasn't displaying U.S. Department of Transportation and International Fuel Tax Association stickers, according to Tennessee authorities. The trooper was about to conduct an inspection of the bus, a Prevost motor coach, when he ``noticed an odor of marijuana emitting from the vehicle,'' authorities said in a statement. Two troopers then searched the bus, finding ``five colored crystal-type rocks that tested positive for methamphetamine, as well as a small amount of marijuana and other drug paraphernalia,'' the statement said. The search also turned up several handguns and 100 small Ziploc bags, which the statement said are commonly used for selling drugs. The guns included a gold-plated.50 - caliber Desert Eagle pistol, a.45 - caliber Taurus pistol and a.500 Smith & Wesson magnum. Nelly, whose real name is Cornell Haynes, was taken to the Putnam County Jail along with another passenger. He later posted bond and left the jail, the Putnam County Sheriff's Office said. CNN couldn't immediately reach Nelly's representatives for comment Saturday. CNN's Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
( CNN ) ``Star Wars'' fans will get more than they bargained for when the saga comes to digital HD on Friday. The collection of the first six ``Star Wars'' movies will also include many special features, some of which give fans a rare glimpse behind the scenes of the saga. One focus of the features will be the sound effects of the movies, including that of the insect-like Geonosians, as seen in ``Star Wars Episode II : Attack of the Clones.''. `Star Wars' universe gets its first gay character. In the exclusive first-look video, sound designer Ben Burtt explains which animals were used to capture the alien sounds made by the Geonosians. Take a look at the video above to find out. `Star Wars' films available for digital download for first time.
( CNN ) Hillary Clinton is finally announcing her candidacy for the 2016 presidential election. Although she has watched her standing in the polls sag in recent months, there is likely to be a boost in the days that follow the announcement. For Democrats, there is ample reason to be excited about Clinton's run for the presidency. She is certainly one of the strongest candidates in many decades. She brings to the table extensive political and policy experience, a combination of skills that is often lacking. She has been through some of the roughest partisan wars and emerged stronger than ever before. She has a keen sense about the nature of the modern news media, how to use it to her advantage and how to survive scandal frenzies. She is a hardened, tough partisan who will not shy away from Republican attack. Americans have many positive memories of Clinton name, given the booming economy of the late 1990s during Bill Clinton's presidency. If Hillary Clinton puts together an effective campaign, she could be unbeatable in the Democratic primaries as well as in the general election. However, during the buildup to her final decision, some of her weaknesses have also been exposed. Clinton doesn't want to end up like Vice President Al Gore in 2000. Although he did relatively well in the final election ( with many Americans believing that he did actually defeat George W. Bush ) he didn't generate much energy once the campaign started. Although he too was touted as a ``perfect'' candidate who was the ideal person for the job, something seemed stiff and inauthentic when he actually hit the trail. He seemed to freeze when the television cameras were rolling. Gore had trouble connecting with voters, and he seemed to remake his image constantly. His biggest asset ended up being that he was viewed as the inevitable nominee, rather than what he actually stood for. Clinton must avoid following Gore's path. She suffered this fate in the 2008 primaries and can't afford to do so again. She needs to do more than rest on the perception that her candidacy is inevitable and on her record of experience. That is not enough. More important is for her to put forth an exciting vision about what she would stand for in the White House. Voters thirst for signs of greatness when they pick their presidents, even if they are savvy enough to understand that the reality of a polarized Washington will probably limit her ability to achieve bold change. A recent story in The Washington Post suggests that her advisers are aware of this potential liability. After the announcement, they are going to avoid big rallies and events and instead concentrate on smaller events where she will meet with voters directly in states such as Iowa and New Hampshire. Clinton also will have to contend with doubts about her authenticity. In his first day on the campaign trail, Sen. Rand Paul immediately tapped into these concerns by raising questions about whether she could be trusted. That question has dogged the Clintons ever since they came onto the national political scene in the late 1980s. Their greatest virtue, their immense skills as politicians, has often come back to haunt them. Bill Clinton was attacked as ``slick Willie'' by members of both parties for the perception that he would say anything to win and Hillary Clinton has faced similar criticism. When she tried to distance herself from her vote for the use of force in Iraq, many Democrats didn't buy her critique of President George W. Bush's foreign policies and went for Barack Obama instead. When she conducted her ``listening tour'' of New York before running for the Senate, many voters saw it as a manufactured effort to hide the fact she was running for office as an outsider. When she explained that there was nothing to the recent stories about her use of a private email server rather than her State Department email, some felt that even if the story was relatively minor it indicated that she wasn't always telling us what she was really about. Even if she isn't hiding anything, she often gives that appearance. During the next few months, Clinton will also have to connect with her party's base. The ongoing speculation about Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts has suggested that the most active part of the Democratic Party is not that enthused with Clinton's candidacy. While they will probably vote for her, they are not very motivated and don't trust that she will stand for Democratic values. She will need to address these concerns, not through her style but through her agenda. Voters will want to hear her talking about issues such as tougher financial regulation and policies to diminish economic inequality as well as her positions on race and policing. She will also need to make clear that she has heard voters on being too hawkish about going to war and give clear indications about how she would handle a nuclear agreement with Iran. Clinton will also have to contend with the gender bias that still exists in the electorate at large. Without any doubt she will be subject to questions and comments -- about her appearance, for instance -- that won't be aimed at male candidates. Part of her candidacy is itself an effort to break down these remaining vestiges of political sexism. But the struggle will be tough. Finally, and this relates to the last challenge, Clinton will have to contend with her husband. To be sure he can be an immense force on the campaign trail, one of the most compelling Democrats of our generation. But he can also be liability. As she learned in 2008, Bill Clinton is not always easy to control. When he speaks his mind, as he did in dismissive comments about Obama's candidacy, it can often work against her. The fund-raising records of the Clinton Foundation will also raise questions about conflict of interest, and ongoing stories about his personal life, as was the case when Monica Lewinsky returned to the media a few months ago, could re-emerge on the campaign trail. Whether that is fair or not is beside the point : Everything is fair game on the modern campaign trail. Hillary Clinton has the potential to be a hugely successful presidential candidate. But she and her campaign team will need to address the multiple questions and weaknesses that have become clear in recent months.
Des Moines, Iowa ( CNN ) Martin O'Malley told reporters in Iowa on Friday that inevitability -- a term bandied about regarding Democratic presidential frontrunner Hillary Clinton -- is not unbreakable. ``I've seen it before,'' the former Governor of Maryland and possible presidential contender said. ``History is full of examples where the inevitable frontrunner was inevitable right up until she was no longer or he was no longer inevitable.''. Clinton was considered inevitable to win the nomination in 2008 but ended up losing to Barack Obama. O'Malley had previously dropped the inevitability comment in a television interview last month. The former governor, who capped off his two-day trip to the first-in-the-nation caucus state with a speech to the Polk County Democrats in Des Moines, said that although Clinton is an ``eminently qualified candidate,'' the Democratic Party is full of ``good leaders.''. ``History is full of examples where people who are not very well known nationally can be very well known once they are willing to make their case to the people of Iowa,'' O'Malley said. In some polls, he has scored in the low single digits in the state. In a March CNN/ORC poll of national Democrats, only 1 % picked O'Malley. In a January poll by Bloomberg Politics and the Des Moines Register, O'Malley was also at 1 % among Iowa Democrats. Clinton, who leads most polls by upwards of 40 points, is planning to launch her presidential candidacy on Sunday through a video message on social media, a person close to her campaign-in-waiting told CNN on Friday. While he wouldn't say much about Clinton, when asked about her candidacy, O'Malley said, ``if leaders believe that they have the experience and the framework to move our country forward, they should run. And they should engage with voters and our country would be the better for it.''. O'Malley, like other Democrats, appears to refrain from directly attacking Clinton. Although last month on ABC, he said that the presidency is ``not some crown to be passed between two families,'' he has not focused on her. He has, however, openly teased a presidential run. ``I know that, as Democrats, we expect -- and I have heard this all over the country -- the Democrats expect a robust conversation about the issues we face as a nation and the challenges we face,'' he said. ``They believe that that conversation needs to take place in something as important as a presidential primary.''. He concluded : ``It would be an extreme poverty indeed if there was only one person willing to compete for our party's nomination for President.''
New Delhi ( CNN ) An Indian software pioneer and nine others have been sentenced to seven years in jail for their role in what has been dubbed India's biggest corporate scandal in memory, police said. Ramalinga Raju, the former chairman of software services exporter Satyam Computers Services, was also fined $ 804,000, R.K. Gaur, a spokesman for India's Central Bureau of Investigation, told CNN. In 2009, Satyam Computers Services was at the center of a massive $ 1.6 billion fraud case after its then-chairman Raju admitted inflating profits with fictitious assets and nonexistent cash. Investigators say losses to investors resulting from the company's book manipulation were much higher. A special court convicted Raju and nine other people of cheating, criminal conspiracy, breach of public trust and other charges, said the Central Bureau of Investigation, which looked into the case. In the media, the case has been compared to the 2001 Enron Corp. scandal, in which a Houston energy company's earnings had been overstated by several hundred million dollars. When the scam made headlines, Satyam, which means ``truth'' in Sanskrit, was India's fourth-largest software services provider. It was serving almost 700 companies, including 185 Fortune 500 companies, and generated more than half of its revenue from the United States. The company had about 53,000 employees and operated in 65 countries. After Raju's shock disclosures six years ago, the Indian government fired Satyam's board. In a subsequent state-backed auction, the company was bought by Tech Mahindra, part of the country's Mahindra Group. A heavyweight of the nation's software industry, Raju, 60, has been in jail for the past 32 months. He had founded Satyam in 1987. His company made giant strides as the outsourcing business grew in India in the 1990s.
( CNN ) When photographer Johan Bavman became a father for the first time, he took more than a passing wonder about how his native Sweden is said to be the most generous nation on Earth for parental leave. He immersed himself in fatherhood -- twice over, you might say. He used his photography to document the real-life experience of other fathers taking full advantage of Sweden's extraordinary program, which allows mothers and fathers to take long, long leaves from their careers so they can care for their newborns. Get this : Sweden grants a total of 480 calendar days of parental leave, with 390 of them paid at 80 % of income, with a maximum of 3,160 euros a month or $ 3,474. The remaining 90 days are paid at a flat-rate benefit of 20 euros a day, or $ 22. But there's a catch. Fathers have to share that leave with mothers. So to promote both parents to raise their children, Sweden has mandated that 60 of the 480 days be ``daddy months'' or ``partner months.'' If the 60 daddy days aren't used, they are lost, reducing the maximum leave to 420 days. The country also created a ``gender equality bonus'' : the more days that parents share the leave equally, they get a bonus that could total up to 1,500 euros, or $ 1,649. The idea is for both parents to share the joys and struggles of raising infants. In reality, only 12 % of Swedish couples equally share the 480 days of leave, Bavman said, with women continuing to lead the way as the stay-at-home parent and men as the careerist. Still, Bavman mused last summer about how the policy impacts those men who use the full measure of their parental leave. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. At first, Bavman had difficulty finding such men. But the fathers he did find and photograph, he captured their devotion in realistic imagery. ``I realized while I was talking to these dads, these dads are struck by how important the bonding is between you and the children,'' said Bavman, who now has a 3-year-old son, Viggo, with partner Linda Stark, a freelance journalist. ``I didn't want to bring out fathers as superdads,'' Bavman said. ``I wanted to bring out these role models which people can connect to. ``I want to have those dads who can also show their tiredness.. which comes with being home with your children. It's a hard full-time job. This is something that we have been taking for granted for hundreds of years. This is something that mothers have never been recognized for.''. He also found moments of humor, with one child nearly ripping apart the shirt of his busy father. The fathers have become more understanding of their wives and even their own mothers, Bavman said. Some are now considering a career change to accommodate their parenthood. ``Being home nine months, they get time to think about their life,'' the photographer said. Bavman is looking for a total of 60 fathers to photograph, to culminate in an exhibition and a book. So far he's found 35 worthy of his lens. Johan Bavman is a freelance photographer based in Malmo, Sweden. From 2008-2011, he worked as a staff photographer at Sydsvenskan, one of Sweden's largest newspapers.
( CNN ) Craig Hicks, who is charged in the deaths of three Muslim college students in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, earlier this year, can face the death penalty, a judge ruled Monday, according to CNN affiliates. Superior Court Judge Orlando Hudson Jr. ruled that Hicks' case is ``death penalty qualified,'' WRAL and WTVD reported. The 46-year-old was arrested February 10 in the deaths of Yusor Mohammad, 21, her 23-year-old husband, Deah Shaddy Barakat, and 19-year-old sister, Razan Mohammad Abu-Salha. All three were shot in the head. Hicks, who was the victims' neighbor, turned himself in to police the night of the killings. The next week, he was indicted on three counts of first-degree murder and a count of discharging a firearm into an occupied dwelling. He had no prior criminal record, police said. Police said ``an ongoing neighbor dispute over parking'' might have been a factor in the shootings but also said they weren't dismissing the possibility of a hate crime. On what is believed to be Hicks' Facebook page, numerous posts rail against religion. The victims' family members have called on authorities to investigate the slayings as a hate crime. The U.S. Department of Justice issued a statement in February saying the department's Civil Rights Division, along with the the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of North Carolina and the FBI, have opened ``a parallel preliminary inquiry'' to determine whether any federal laws, including hate crime laws, were violated. ``It has always been our position that Mr. Hicks should be held responsible for his actions to the full extent of the law. His killing of three college students was despicable, and now he must face the consequences of his actions,'' said Rob Maitland, an attorney for Hicks' wife. Karen and Craig Hicks are in the process of divorce.
( CNN ) HBO just whetted our appetite for a new season of ``True Detective.''. The network released a teaser video for season 2 of the critically acclaimed show, and it looks intense. Colin Farrell, Vince Vaughn, Rachel McAdams and Taylor Kitsch star in the new season, which premieres June 21. Here's the plot synopsis, according to Den of Geek :. ``A bizarre murder brings together three law-enforcement officers and a career criminal, each of whom must navigate a web of conspiracy and betrayal in the scorched landscapes of California. Colin Farrell is Ray Velcoro, a compromised detective in the all-industrial City of Vinci, LA County. Vince Vaughn plays Frank Semyon, a criminal and entrepreneur in danger of losing his life's work, while his wife and closest ally ( Kelly Reilly ), struggles with his choices and her own. Rachel McAdams is Ani Bezzerides, a Ventura County Sheriff's detective often at odds with the system she serves, while Taylor Kitsch plays Paul Woodrugh, a war veteran and motorcycle cop for the California Highway Patrol who discovers a crime scene which triggers an investigation involving three law enforcement groups, multiple criminal collusions, and billions of dollars.''. Yes, please. The first season starred Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson as a pair of Louisiana State Police detectives investigating the death of a young woman. The crime drama proved to be a runaway hit, and the season 1 finale crashed the HBO Go site in March 2014.
( CNN ) The University of Michigan has decided to proceed with a screening of the film ``American Sniper'' despite objections from some students. More than 200 students signed a petition asking the school not to show the movie as part of UMix, a series of social events the university stages for students. Bradley Cooper was nominated for an Oscar for his portrayal of Chris Kyle, a Navy SEAL and the most lethal sniper in U.S. military history. Kyle was fatally shot at a Texas shooting range in 2013. Some students believed the movie's depiction of the Iraq War reflected negatively on the Middle East and people from that region. Michigan's Detroit metropolitan area is home to the nation's largest Arab-American population. But there was a backlash to the decision to yank the movie, and a counter-petition asked school officials to reconsider. On Wednesday, E. Royster Harper, University of Michigan's vice president for student life, said in a statement that ``It was a mistake to cancel the showing of the movie `American Sniper' on campus as part of a social event for students'' and that the show will go on. ``The initial decision to cancel the movie was not consistent with the high value the University of Michigan places on freedom of expression and our respect for the right of students to make their own choices in such matters,'' the statement said. UMix will offer a screening of the family-friendly ``Paddington'' for those who would rather not attend ``American Sniper.''. The announcement drew praise from Michigan head football coach Jim Harbaugh.
( CNN ) Lauren Hill, who took her inspirational fight against brain cancer onto the basketball court and into the hearts of many, has died at age 19. The Indiana woman's story became known around the world last year when she was able to realize her dream of playing college basketball. Mount St. Joseph University in Cincinnati successfully petitioned the NCAA to move up the opening game of its schedule to accommodate her desire to play. Hill died early Friday. At a ceremony honoring her life on the school's campus Friday afternoon, head coach Dan Benjamin said the toughest thing a coach has to deal with is a loss. The community had lost more than a player, he said. It lost a friend and a daughter. And it lost ``an unselfish angel.''. ``It's not often you get to celebrate a loss,'' he told the crowd as he struggled to hold in his tears. ``But today we celebrate a victory on how to live a life, through Lauren Hill. ( No. ) 22 you will be missed and remembered by so many.''. An assistant coach read a quote from Hill :. ``I encourage everyone to cherish every moment with no worry about the past or anxiety about the future. Because the next moment is never promised. Never leave anything unsaid. I have learned to see the blessings in every moment and through every struggle, no matter how tough it might be. Nothing holds me back from living my life and chasing my dreams. I always finish what I start and see it through to the end. Never give up on your dreams. Find something to fight for ; I fight for others.''. Hill would go on to help raise $ 1.4 million for pediatric cancer research with the nonprofit group The Cure Starts Now. The organization called her a ``worldwide inspiration.''. ``Lauren captured the hearts of people worldwide with her tenacity and determination to play in her first collegiate basketball game with her Mount St. Joseph University team,'' the group said on Facebook. People we've lost in 2015. Mount St. Joseph University President Tony Artez said Hill's ``love and laughter will remain in our hearts.''. ``We are forever grateful to have had Lauren grace our campus with her smile and determined spirit,'' Artez said in a statement. ``She has left a powerful legacy. She taught us that every day is a blessing, every moment a gift.''. Her principal at Lawrenceburg High School, Bill Snyder, announced her death to students Friday morning. ``Lauren's message was constantly positive,'' he told CNN. ``We all need to work together to beat obstacles. Not just cancer. In any situation we can be positive.''. As news of her death spread, social media lit up with messages honoring her life. NBA great LeBron James called her the ``true definition of strength, courage, power, leadership.''. ``The greatest accomplishment we can achieve as humans is to inspire many,'' Twitter user Just_AP wrote. ``Lauren Hill did that.''. NCAA President Mark Emmert said Hill's ``enthusiasm and strength were an inspiration not only to those who knew her best, but also to the millions of people she touched around the world by sharing her story.''. ``Lauren achieved a lasting and meaningful legacy, and her beautiful spirit will continue to live on,'' he said in a statement. Hill was diagnosed with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma in 2013 when she was a senior in high school. The rare brain tumor was inoperable, but Hill persisted in playing on her high school team despite chemotherapy treatments. ``I never gave up for a second, even when I got a terminal diagnosis, never thought about sitting back and not living life anymore,'' she told CNN affiliate WKRC-TV at the time. She had already committed to play for Mount St. Joseph when she was diagnosed. In October, the school received permission from the NCAA to move up its first scheduled game so Hill could play. In front of a sellout crowd, many wearing T-shirts bearing her name and slogan, ``Never Give Up,'' watched the ballplayer score the first two points and the final layup of the game. ``Today has been the best day I've ever had,'' Hill told the crowd after the game. ``I don't know what to say but thank you.''. CNN's Jill Martin, Emanuella Grinberg and Faith Karimi contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A 32-year-old Massachusetts man is facing murder charges, authorities said Wednesday, four days after another man's remains were found in a duffel bag. The Middlesex District Attorney's Office said that Carlos Colina, 32, will be arraigned the morning of April 14 for murder in connection with the remains discovered Saturday in Cambridge. Earlier this week, Colina was arraigned on charges of assault and battery causing serious bodily injury and improper disposal of a body. A Middlesex County judge then revoked bail for Colina in another case he's involved in, for alleged assault and battery. The victim in that case is different from the one whose remains were found in recent days. Police were notified Saturday morning about a suspicious item along a walkway in Cambridge. Officers arrived at the scene, opened a duffel bag and found human remains. After that discovery, police say, a surveillance video led them to an apartment building, where more body parts were discovered in a common area. That location is near the Cambridge Police Department headquarters. The remains at both locations belonged to the same victim, identified Monday as Jonathan Camilien, 26. Camilien and Colina knew each other, according to authorities. ``This was a gruesome discovery,'' District Attorney Marian Ryan said. CNN's Kevin Conlon contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Chris Copeland of the Indiana Pacers was stabbed after leaving a trendy New York nightclub early Wednesday, and two Atlanta Hawks -- who had just finished a home game hours before the incident -- were among those arrested, according to police and CNN affiliates. The Hawks were not involved in the stabbing incident, police said, but were arrested on obstruction and other charges later. Though New York Police Department Det. Kelly Ort initially told CNN the incident occurred just before 4 a.m. at 1OAK, a club in New York's Chelsea neighborhood known to draw celebrities among its clientele, the club later told CNN that the stabbing occurred in front of the Fulton Houses project down the street. ``1OAK staff was unaware of the incident when it happened, as it occurred beyond their view in a different location. However, 1OAK's team assisted Mr. Copeland to their fullest capabilities, and called for help as soon as he was seen walking back towards the venue,'' the statement said. The statement continued, ``A review of the video footage seems to reveal the incident did not originate from the venue or its immediate surroundings that are under 1OAK supervision.''. Copeland and a female companion, Katrine Saltara, were in the club for about 10 minutes before leaving and walking down the street toward Fulton Houses, where their car was parked, said a 1OAK spokesperson. The spokesperson gave CNN additional details on condition of anonymity because 1OAK's legal team had approved only the club's official statement. The suspect, who the spokesperson said never entered 1OAK, stabbed Copeland and Saltara in front of Fulton Houses, and according to the club's statement, ``Mr. Copeland's driver sprang to accost and detain the apparent perpetrator and that individual is now in police custody.''. Charges against the suspect are pending, and his name will be released once charges are filed, Ort said. Copeland and Saltara tried to make their way back to the club to seek help from the 20 or so security personnel on hand, leaving a ``bloody trail of handprints'' between the site of the stabbing and the club, the spokesperson said. Copeland ``almost landed right next to the club,'' the spokesperson said, adding that surveillance footage will not show the actual stabbing because it occurred too far away from the club. The club shut down immediately after the incident, the spokesperson said. A male and two females were taken to area hospitals, Ort said. A knife was recovered, a suspect was arrested and two individuals not involved in the dispute -- the Hawks' Pero Antic, 32, and Thabo Sefolosha, 30 -- were arrested on charges of obstructing governmental administration and disorderly conduct, she said. Sefolosha faces an additional charge of resisting arrest, Ort said. Word of the stabbing quickly spread through the club, reaching Antic and Sefolosha, who went outside to check on their friend, Copeland, the 1OAK spokesperson said. At one point, the two began pushing their way through a crowd that had gathered around the scene, leading to their arrests, the spokesperson said. ``We will contest these charges and look forward to communicating the facts of the situation at the appropriate time,'' the players said in a joint statement released by the team. ``We apologize to our respective families, teammates, and the Hawks' organization for any negative attention this incident has brought upon them.''. The Hawks are in New York for a Wednesday night game against the Brooklyn Nets. Neither player will be in uniform, the team said. Police released little information Wednesday, but local media identified the injured man as Copeland, 31, who is from Orange, New Jersey. The Pacers released a statement saying Copeland suffered a knife wound to his left elbow and abdomen, and he's in stable condition at a New York hospital. ``We are aware that Chris Copeland was injured early this morning in New York City. We are still gathering information and will update when we know more. Our thoughts are with Chris and those injured,'' Larry Bird, the Pacers' president of basketball operations, said in a statement. Copeland's agent, John Spencer, issued a statement saying, ``We're concerned about the safety of Chris and Katrine. We don't have any details at this particular time. All we can do is pray and wait.''. The NBA and the Hawks front office said they were looking into the incident. ``We are aware of the situation involving Pero Antic and Thabo Sefolosha this morning. We are in the process of gathering more information and will have further comment at the appropriate time,'' Hawks spokesman Garin Narain said in an email. Copeland's Pacers are slated to play the New York Knicks on Wednesday night. The pair apparently had only recently arrived in New York prior to their arrests, as both were on the court for the Hawks' 96-69 win over the Phoenix Suns in Atlanta on Tuesday night. Antic played 12 minutes, and Sefolosha played 20. The game ended around 10 p.m. Copeland, a former Knick, was near the nightclub with Saltara when a 22-year-old Brooklyn man approached them, police told CNN affiliate WABC. There was some sort of dispute before the suspect stabbed the 6-foot-8-inch Copeland in the abdomen, slashed Saltara and then slashed another woman, the station reported. Saltara suffered cuts to her arm, breast and buttock, and the other woman suffered a slash to her stomach, CNN affiliate WCBS reported. While WCBS reported that the second woman was 53 years old, WABC reported she was 23. Images published in the New York Daily News showed a considerable amount of blood on the sidewalk and a white sports coupe, roped off with police tape, with several streaks of blood on its driver's side. Antic and Sefolosha interfered with officers trying to establish a crime scene, and one of the Hawks pushed a police officer, WABC reported. The Hawks are preparing for a historic playoff run after clinching the No. 1 seed in the NBA's Eastern Conference. Tuesday's win over the Suns marked a franchise-best 58 wins in a season for the club. The Pacers sit in the conference's 10th spot but are only one game out of playoff contention. CNN's Laura Ly, Jason Durand and Jill Martin contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A year after its Cannes debut and finally seeing a theatrical release, ``Lost River'' is still causing quite a stir. Booed at its premiere and mocked by reviewers, Ryan Gosling's first feature as director has been divisive, to put it mildly. But there has been one shining light cutting through the fog of critical hyperbole : its setting, a besmirched and decaying Detroit. Wavering on the brink of annihilation, yet providing kindling for its own rebirth, the city is captured in all its waning splendor, the perfect backdrop for Gosling's post-industrial gothic. Speaking about the film in London, Gosling made clear that the city was at the heart of the project -- in fact, without Detroit's crumbling edifices there would be no film at all. Gosling said that ``Lost River'' began as a collection of speculative shots of the Brewster-Douglass Projects, the first black social housing development in America and a place Motown legends The Supremes and boxer Joe Louis once called home. ``I heard -LSB- the authorities -RSB- were going to tear them down,'' Gosling said. ``I had to shoot them before they did.''. Taking time out between acting jobs, he ventured into the projects. ``I started shooting more and more,'' he explained, ``and then I realized that I was making a film. Then I started writing -LSB- the script -RSB- during the process of filming.''. Gosling's affection for the Motor City is longstanding, the actor growing up ``not too far away'' in Cornwall, Ontario. ``It seemed like everything cool came from Detroit.. the whole American Dream,'' he reminisces. ``The Model-T, Motown, the refrigerator..''. Now though he references ``40 miles of dead neighborhoods,'' the city declaring bankruptcy. ``Houses are burning and things are being torn down,'' he says, ``and within that there are families trying to hold on to their homes. For them it has become a nightmare and I wanted to make a film about that.''. The title itself alludes to a once thriving community now displaced, its homes at the bottom of a reservoir built with little concern for the residents -- man-made interference with untold social repercussions. Speaking in broader terms, Gosling argues ``there are Lost Rivers everywhere and we wanted to share the experience these people were having.''. On screen he paints a nihilistic image of wanton destruction ; torched properties and bulldozers jostling for our attention amid acts of extreme human violence -- sometimes self-inflicted. The director plainly states that as a location it ``was pretty dangerous.''. He describes ``an energy there that was threatening.. We had a very charmed experience -LSB- filming -RSB-. It worked its way into the fabric of the movie -- a tone of impending threat that was just there.''. However there are signs of humanity and regeneration amongst the chaos, on camera and off. For the film's young protagonist, every raid on an unoccupied house offers copper piping waiting to be recast and ultimately reclaimed. Similarly, Gosling references the Heidelberg Project during the discussion, a community organization in the city's McDougall-Hunt neighborhood, reimagining derelict buildings as giant canvases for budding artists. He recalls seeing ``one house covered with teddy bears, another covered in clocks.. people taking spaces and personalizing them.''. The city's scope for urban renewal was clearly a draw. ``Something really interesting is happening in Detroit at the moment -- a rebirth. People redefining what they are,'' according to Gosling. ``There's a resilience there and an energy, and it's exciting.''. As much as the visual content of ``Lost River'' revolves around a maudlin preoccupation with dereliction -- and perhaps plays on the outside world's perception of Detroit -- aspects of the narrative suggest hope and the possibility of reincarnation for the city. Gosling claims this paradox should exist when discussing Detroit, and is precisely what the film is trying to convey. ``We want people to know that dereliction is happening there, but that it's not only what is happening there,'' he argues. ``It doesn't define Detroit, it's just part of what it's dealing with right now.''. ``Lost River'' receives a limited theatrical release in the U.S. and UK on April 10.
( CNN ) All Elizabeth Sedway wanted was to leave paradise and head home. But she couldn't. Why ? Because, according to her, she has cancer. That's what she said in a video posted to Facebook that shows her group packing up from their Alaska Airlines plane as it sat at the gate in Hawaii. ``You're taking me off the airplane because I don't have a doctor's note saying I can fly,'' a woman is heard saying. ``All these people are waiting, and I'm being removed as if I'm a criminal or contagious, because I have cancer and no note to fly.''. Sedway did eventually get on a flight back to San Jose, California, although she didn't get home until late Tuesday night. And she got an apology. ``We regret the inconvenience Ms. Sedway experienced.. and are very sorry for how the situation was handled,'' Alaska Airlines spokeswoman Bobbie Egan said.''.. While our employee had the customer's well-being in mind, the situation could have been handled differently.''. Her cancer fight notwithstanding, Sedway was in Hawaii in time to celebrate her 14th wedding anniversary. Still, on Monday, she was on a plane to head east. Then, according to her Facebook post, an airline employee who saw Sedway seated in the handicapped section asked her how she was doing. The second time she inquired, Sedway wrote that she responded by saying she sometimes felt weak. That was followed by a call to a doctor, then her removal from the plane. Egan, the Alaska Airlines spokeswoman, acknowledged that the carrier's policy when someone has a medical issue is to call MedLink, a group of ER nurses and doctors. The idea, she explained, is that ``it is better to address medical issues or concerns on the ground rather than in the air, especially on flights to or from Hawaii'' -- which in that case would last five-plus hours over open ocean. The decision to pull Sedway from the flight was done with ``the customer's well-being'' in mind, according to Egan. Still, that doesn't mean it was the right decision. Alaska Airlines since apologized to Sedway ``for the disruption this has caused,'' in addition to refunding her family's tickets and paying for their overnight accommodations.''. Even though she was stuck in Hawaii, Sedway made clear on Facebook that this was a real ``disruption.''. ``Because of this, I will miss my chemotherapy, my children will miss school and my husband will miss important meetings,'' she said.
( CNN ) It took prosecutors months to present 131 witnesses to support their claim that former NFL star Aaron Hernandez killed semi-pro player Odin Lloyd. On Monday, Hernandez's defense gave its side of the story, wrapping up its witnesses in less than a day. Hernandez, 25, is on trial for the shooting death of Lloyd, whose body was found in a Massachusetts industrial park in June 2013. Now that the defense has rested, it won't be long before the jury begins deliberating. Much of the evidence in the former New England Patriots' case is circumstantial. Here are some key points jurors will have to consider after each side makes closing arguments on Tuesday :. As news spread that Hernandez was under investigation in June 2013, Patriots owner Robert Kraft called in the tight end for a meeting two days after Lloyd's death. ``He said he was not involved,'' Kraft testified last week. ``He said he was innocent, and that he hoped that the time of the murder incident came out because he said he was in a club.''. There's only one potential problem with that claim : The time Lloyd was killed hadn't been made public yet by the time Hernandez met with Kraft. So how could Hernandez have known when Lloyd was killed ?. ``What a great, great witness for the prosecution,'' CNN legal analyst Mel Robbins said. ``Basically what happened is Aaron Hernandez lied to his boss. And the only way you rebut it is if you put him on the stand.''. When questioned by a defense attorney, Kraft said that he'd never had any problems with Hernandez and that the player was always respectful to him. Hernandez's fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, revealed for the first time last week that Hernandez told her to dispose of a box from the couple's home that she said reeked of marijuana. She also said she didn't know what was in the box. That revelation may contradict the prosecution's contention that the weapon used in the killing was in the box. The murder weapon in the case has not been recovered. During cross-examination by the defense, Jenkins testified that she suspected marijuana because the box smelled ``skunky.''. Earlier, she told prosecutors during direct examination that she didn't know what was in the box. She said Hernandez never told her, and she never looked. After concealing the box with her daughter's clothing, Jenkins said she threw it away in ``a random dumpster'' but could not remember exactly where. Much testimony has focused on the shoes Hernandez wore the night Lloyd was shot. A Nike consultant testified that Hernandez was wearing Nike Air Jordan Retro 11 Lows. About 93,000 pairs of that shoe were made, significantly fewer in a size 13. The shoe's sole makes a distinct impression, said Lt. Steven Bennett of the Massachusetts State Police. The consultant testified under questioning from defense attorney Jamie Sultan that other Nike shoes -- more than 3 million -- make the same impression. Yet Bennett, who works in crime scene services, testified that the footprint left near Lloyd's body was ``in agreement'' or consistent with the Air Jordan Retro 11 Lows size 13. Although he did not have the shoes that Hernandez wore that night, he used an identical pair to make his determination. Bennett did so by creating a transparency of the sole and laying it over a photo of the footwear impression. Jurors watched as he drew lines showing how the sole aligned with the impression. What may have been a key moment for the prosecution was quickly derailed by defense attorney Jamie Sultan. Sultan questioned the science behind analyzing footprints. He introduced a March 2014 investigative report written by Bennett saying the partial footwear impression lacked certain detail and quality to be able to make a comparison. Prosecutors used grainy footage from Hernandez's home security system to suggest he was holding a.45 - caliber handgun -- the same kind of gun police said was used to kill Lloyd. Hernandez could be seen on camera pulling into his driveway minutes after Lloyd was shot to death in an industrial park about a mile from Hernandez's home. ``In my opinion, the firearm shown in the video stills is a Glock pistol,'' Glock sales manager Kyle Aspinwall testified. The video is time-stamped minutes after workers in a nearby industrial park describe hearing loud noises like fireworks -- the moment prosecutors say Lloyd was gunned down after getting out of a car Hernandez was driving. Hernandez's lawyers then showed a different part of the video time-stamped a few seconds earlier with Hernandez holding what appeared to be a shiny object in one hand, suggesting it may be an iPad. ``Glock pistols don't have white glows to them, do they ?'' defense attorney James Sultan asked. ``No, they do not,'' Aspinwall answered. Sultan then displayed a soft-pellet gun similar in shape to a Glock, suggesting it could also be the object Hernandez is holding. Hernandez has pleaded not guilty in Lloyd's death. But already, his arrest has led to deep consequences, including his release from the New England Patriots and the loss of millions of dollars in expected earnings. So what might make a young man who had signed a $ 40 million contract risk everything ?. Prosecutors have said Lloyd might have done or said something that didn't sit well with Hernandez. They claimed Hernandez rounded up some friends and orchestrated a hit to settle the score. Hernandez's co-defendants, Ernest Wallace and Carlos Ortiz, also pleaded not guilty and will be tried separately. But the case gets more complicated. Evidence collected in Lloyd's death investigation led to two more murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. Hernandez is also accused of shooting Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado, allegedly over a spilled drink at a nightclub. That double shooting took place in July 2012, almost a year before Lloyd was killed. Prosecutors have said in pretrial hearings that Hernandez may have been mad at himself for possibly showing Lloyd the spot where that double murder happened. During trial, prosecutors suggest a text written by Hernandez the day before the murder saying he was ``buggin'' for showing Lloyd ``the spot'' may have played a role in plotting to kill Lloyd. The judge has banned any mention of the double murder in Lloyd's trial, ruling it is prejudicial. Hernandez has pleaded not guilty in those deaths as well. But when the Lloyd trial ends, that murder trial awaits him. CNN's Jason Hanna, Lawrence Crook, Laura Dolan and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) For 12 years Adelma Cifuentes felt worthless, frightened and alone, never knowing when her abusive husband would strike. But as a young mother in rural Guatemala with three children and barely a third grade education, she thought there was no way out. What began as psychological torment, name-calling and humiliation turned into beatings so severe Cifuentes feared for her life. One day, two men sent by her husband showed up at her house armed with a shotgun and orders to kill her. They probably would have succeeded, but after the first bullet was fired, Cifuentes' two sons dragged her inside. Still, in her deeply conservative community, it took neighbors two hours to call for help and Cifuentes lost her arm. But the abuse didn't stop there. When she returned home, Cifuentes' husband continued his attacks and threatened to rape their little girl unless she left. That's when the nightmare finally ended and her search for justice began. Cifuentes' case is dramatic, but in Guatemala, where nearly 10 out of every 100,000 women are killed, it's hardly unusual. A 2012 Small Arms Survey says gender-based violence is at epidemic levels in Guatemala and the country ranks third in the killings of women worldwide. According to the United Nations, two women are killed there every day. There are many reasons why, beginning with the legacy of violence left in place after the country's 36-year-old civil war. During the conflict, atrocities were committed against women, who were used as a weapon of war. In 1996, a ceasefire agreement was reached between insurgents and the government. But what followed and what remains is a climate of terror, due to a deeply entrenched culture of impunity and discrimination. Military and paramilitary groups that committed barbaric acts during the war were integrated back into society without any repercussions. Many remain in power, and they have not changed the way they view women. Some 200,000 people were either killed or disappeared during the decades-long conflict, most of them from indigenous Mayan populations. Nearly 20 years later, according to the Security Sector Reform Resource Centre, levels of violent crime are higher in Guatemala than they were during the war. But despite the high homicide rate, the United Nations estimates 98 % of cases never make it to court. Women are particularly vulnerable because of a deep-rooted gender bias and culture of misogyny. In many cases, femicide -- the killing of a woman simply because of her gender -- is carried out with shocking brutality with some of the same strategies used during the war, including rape, torture and mutilation. Mexican drug cartels, organized criminal groups and local gangs are contributing to the vicious cycle of violence and lawlessness. Authorities investigating drug-related killings are stretched thin, leaving fewer resources to investigate femicides. In many cases, crime is not reported because of fear of retaliation. Many consider the Guatamalen National Civil Police, or PNC, corrupt, under-resourced and ineffective. Even if a case does get prosecuted, according to Human Rights Watch, the country's weak judicial system has proved incapable of handling the explosion in violence. Perhaps one of the biggest challenges facing women in Guatemala is the country's deeply rooted patriarchal society. According to María Machicado Terán, the representative of U.N. women in Guatemala, ``80 % of men believe that women need permission to leave the house, and 70 % of women surveyed agreed.'' This prevailing culture of machismo and an institutionalized acceptance of brutality against women leads to high rates of violence. Rights groups say machismo not only condones violence, it places the blame on the victim. The political will to address violence against women is slow to materialize. ``Politicians don't think women are important,'' says former Secretary General of the Presidential Secretariat for Women Elizabeth Quiroa. ``Political parties use women for elections. They give them a bag of food and people sell their dignity for this because they are poor.''. Lack of education is a major contributor to this poverty. Many girls, especially in indigenous communities don't go to school because the distance from their house to the classroom is too far. Quiroa says ``They are subject to rape, violence and forced participation in the drug trade.''. Although the situation for girls and women in Guatemala is alarming, there are signs the culture of discrimination may be slowly changing. With the help of an organization known as CICAM, or Centro de Investigación, Cifuentes was finally able to escape her husband and get the justice she deserved. He is now spending 27 years behind bars. Cifuentes is using her painful past to provide hope and healing to others through art. Since 2008, she and four other abuse survivors known as La Poderosas, or ``The Powerful,'' have been appearing in a play based on their real life stories. The show not only empowers other women and discusses the problem of violence openly, but it also offers suggestions for change. And it's having an impact. Women have started breaking their silence and asking where they can get support. Men are reacting, too. One of the main characters, Lesbia Téllez, says during one presentation, a man stood up and started crying when he realized how he had treated his wife and how his mother had been treated. He said he wanted to be different. The taboo topic of gender-based violence is also being acknowledged and recognized in a popular program targeting one of Guatemala's most vulnerable groups, indigenous Mayan girls. In 2004, with help from the United Nations and other organizations, the Population Council launched a community-based club known as Abriendo Oportunidades, or ``Opening Opportunities''. The goal is to provide girls with a safe place to learn about their rights and reach their full potential. Senior Program Coordinator Alejandra Colom says the issue of violence is discussed and girls are taught how to protect themselves. ``They then share this information with their mothers and for the first time, they realize they are entitled to certain rights.''. Colom adds that mothers then become invested in sending their daughters to the clubs and this keeps them more visible and less prone to violence. The Guatemalan government is also moving in the right direction to address the problem of violence against women. In 2008, the Congress passed a law against femicide. Two years later the attorney general's office created a specialized court to try femicides and other violent crimes against women. In 2012, the government established a joint task force for crimes against women, making it easier for women to access justice by making sure victims receive the assistance they need. The government has also established a special 24-hour court to attend to femicide cases. On the global front, the International Violence Against Women Act was introduced in the U.S. Congress in 2007 ; it has been pending ever since. But last week the act was reintroduced in both the House and Senate. If approved, it would make reducing levels of gender-based violence a U.S. foreign policy priority. Pehaps the most immediate and effective help is coming from International nongovernmental organizations, which are on the front lines of the fight against gender-based discrimination in Guatemala. Ben Weingrod, a senior policy advocate at the global poverty fighting group CARE, says, ``We work to identify and challenge harmful social norms that perpetuate violence. Our work includes engaging men and boys as champions of change and role models, and facilitating debates to change harmful norms and create space for more equitable relationships between men and women.''. But the job is far from over. While there is tempered optimism and hope for change, the problem of gender-based violence in Guatemala is one that needs international attention and immediate action. Cifuentes is finding strength through the theater and the support of other abuse survivors, which has allowed her to move forward. But millions of other women trapped in a cycle of violence are facing dangerous and frightening futures. For them, it's a race against time and help can not come soon enough.
( CNN ) A federal grand jury has charged millionaire real estate heir Robert Durst, a convicted felon, with unlawful possession of a firearm. In this week's indictment, Durst, 71, is accused of possessing a.38 caliber revolver, which authorities allegedly found in his hotel room last month. He faces a maximum of 10 years in prison if found guilty of that charge, according to the indictment. The charge is the latest in a litany of accusations. A Louisiana judge ruled last month that Durst, who is charged with first-degree murder, will be held without bail at a facility near New Orleans. Durst was featured this spring in ``The Jinx,'' a HBO documentary about him. He's accused of killing his friend Susan Berman at her home in California in 2000. He also faces state weapons and drugs charges in New Orleans. Last month, court documents claimed that Durst had a loaded.38 - caliber revolver, marijuana, his passport and birth certificate, a latex mask with salt-and-pepper hair attached and more than $ 40,000 cash. He also had a UPS tracking number. The package was intercepted by the FBI, prosecutors said, and it contained clothing and more than $ 100,000 in cash. But the bigger courtroom fight will probably unfold in Los Angeles, where the district attorney filed a first-degree murder charge against Durst last month. He awaits extradition to Los Angeles to face that charge. If convicted, he could face the death penalty. Prosecutors accuse Durst of ``lying in wait'' and killing Berman, a crime writer and his longtime confidante, because she ``was a witness to a crime.''. Berman was shot in the head in her Beverly Hills home in December 2000, shortly before investigators were set to speak with her about the 1982 disappearance of Durst's first wife, Kathleen McCormack Durst. Durst has long maintained that he had nothing to do with Berman's death or his wife's disappearance. It's not the first time he has been accused of murder. He admitted killing and dismembering his neighbor at a 2003 trial, but he was acquitted after arguing that he acted in self-defense. FBI agents have also asked local authorities to examine cold cases in locations near where Durst lived over the past five decades, a U.S. law enforcement official said. Unsolved cases in Vermont, upstate New York, the San Francisco Bay Area and Southern California are among those getting a new look, the official said. Durst's attorney, Dick DeGuerin, said it's a sign that authorities are desperate. DeGuerin has said Durst has serious medical conditions. He is suffering from hydrocephalus, which required brain surgery a couple of years ago, DeGuerin said. Doctors implanted a stent on the right side of his head, the attorney said. ``At the same time he was in the hospital, he had an operation on his esophagus to remove cancer. So he's got some serious health issues.. He's lost a lot of weight. He's not in good health,'' DeGuerin said. DeGuerin also said that Durst is ``mildly autistic'' and has received treatment in the past from one of the country's leading experts in Asperger's syndrome and autism.
( CNN ) Change is coming to Ferguson. In the next few weeks the Department of Justice ( DOJ ) will begin to negotiate in earnest with the city to restructure the police department, which the department has charged with engaging in a pattern and practice of racial discrimination. It should not be forgotten that the DOJ review of the Ferguson Police Department was precipitated by months of protests and activism following the killing of Michael Brown by a Ferguson police officer and by revelations about the town's dysfunctional government and court system by local civil rights law groups. Now, after a half year of unrest, and with citizens on Tuesday electing two new black city council members, change is beginning to come to Ferguson. The question is, what kind of change ?. The report from the Department of Justice offered a devastating insight into a police department and court system that preyed on its own citizens. Through illegal traffic stops and arrests, and the use of excessive force, the police department held town residents in bondage. The municipal court system used excessive court fines and fees to ensure that citizens arrested for even minor infractions would be charged thousands of dollars or face jail time. Court costs and fees constituted the second-largest sources of revenue for the town. Rather than a force for public safety, the Ferguson Police Department became, according to Attorney General Eric Holder, ``a collection agency'' -- one that preyed disproportionately on the town's African-American residents. The evidence of ugly and explicit racial discrimination was devastating. It included blatantly racist emails traded among officers, and evidence that African-Americans were victims in all of the police canine bite incidents recorded by the department. But just a few weeks before the release of the report, the Ferguson police chief declared there were ``no racial issues'' in his department. Ferguson's ugly, racist emails released. The recommendations in the report, ranging from new training and supervision of police officers, addressing racially discriminatory conduct to structural revisions in the court system, will, if implemented, remake the law enforcement system in the town. ( A grand jury that investigated the shooting of Brown by Officer Darren Wilson chose not to file charges against him and the Justice Department also didn't find reason to prosecute. ). Without question, change is coming to the town's government. Town Manager John Shaw, Ferguson's most powerful official and, until the DOJ's blistering report, the one who inexplicably managed to elude public scrutiny, resigned weeks ago and has been replaced by the city's deputy manager. Three sitting city council members chose not to run for office again and, on Tuesday, citizens elected two black candidates to the city council, changing its racial composition : Five of six members and the mayor were white. Now the council will be 50 % black. Ferguson's hapless police Chief Thomas Jackson also finally resigned after holding on through a months-long display of astonishing incompetence. The department first drew the attention of the nation for its display of military weaponry and tear gas in response to civilian protests. The appointment of a commander from the State Highway Patrol was deemed necessary to begin quelling the unrest and to build community trust in the early days of the protest. Jackson's departure sent an important signal to the population of a town preyed upon by officers under his command. And so we can be certain that along with the new makeup of the city council, there will be a new police chief in Ferguson. But does that mean that fundamental change will come to Ferguson ? Not necessarily. Not unless protest and activism during this critical period turns to influence the vitally important opportunities that lie ahead in the coming weeks. The Department of Justice's full-on negotiations with the leadership in Ferguson will determine the shape of the new Ferguson Police Department. Indeed, the DOJ report alludes to the possibility of disbanding the department in favor of a regional policing integration with St. Louis County. Many local activists have suggested just such a solution, but given ongoing problems with policing in the county -- including the role of county forces in some of the most controversial clashes with activists in Ferguson last fall -- community representatives will have to fight hard to ensure that the DOJ can fold St. Louis County Police into its monitoring and reform process. Equally important were the April 7 general elections. Turnout in municipal elections has been notoriously low in Ferguson, with white voters nearly three times more likely to turn out than African-Americans. But local groups had engaged in vigorous voter registration and get-out-the-vote campaigns.. The Mayor has two years left to his term and has defiantly insisted that he will not resign ( although a petition for his recall has been circulating ). That means that he will be a lead voice in negotiating with the DOJ to remake the police department. Has he committed to a clear set of principles that will guide his participation in those talks ? Community activists and residents must ensure that Mayor James Knowles plans to represent their vision of new Ferguson Police Department. But there is an opportunity to begin thinking about even more ambitious structural change in Ferguson and throughout St. Louis County. Ferguson's governing structure, with a strong city manager and a weak council and mayor, mirrors that of thousands of other suburbs in the United States. That form of governance might have been precisely what thriving, middle class white suburbanites wanted when they fled racial integration in cities like St. Louis. But working class suburbs like Ferguson with a majority black population in which the needs of the population in the areas of education and economic opportunity more closely hews to the needs of urban residents, may need a more robust form of governance. In any case, a system in which the elected officials have minimal power, but non-elected leaders, like the town manager and the chief of police, have inordinate power, is a recipe for the kind of unaccountable, non-representative government that controlled Ferguson's residents. Yet this precise form of government is in wide use across the country. Likewise, Missouri, like the vast majority of states, holds municipal elections in non-presidential election years, guaranteeing a significantly lower voter turnout -- although only a few states hold the primary and general election in March and April as Missouri law requires Ferguson to do. It's not that Ferguson is so different than towns across America. It's precisely because Ferguson holds up a mirror to flaws in our democratic system of government in towns across this country that the stakes are so high. Ferguson residents now have the opportunity to begin a movement for change in the other 89 jurisdictions in St. Louis County plagued by similar governance flaws, including those towns led by African-Americans. And Ferguson's example should provoke self-examination in working class suburbs across the country, where the power and effectiveness of weak elected local government is inadequate to meet the needs of the population. Change is coming to Ferguson. But the scope and breadth of that change will depend upon the ambition and discipline of activists and residents, whose passion and tenacity have already transformed the trajectory of leadership in a typical American town.
( CNN ) A Delaware father is in stable condition and improving as his two boys remain in critical condition after they became sick -- perhaps from pesticide exposure, federal officials say -- during a trip to the U.S. Virgin Islands. Steve Esmond, his teenage sons and the teens' mother fell ill more than two weeks ago in St. John, where they were renting a villa at the Sirenusa resort. The family has confidence in their medical professionals and is hopeful for a full recovery, according to a statement released Monday from the family's attorney, James Maron. The teens' mother, Theresa Devine, was treated at a hospital and released, and is in occupational therapy, Maron said. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Friday that the presence of a pesticide at the rented villa in St. John may have caused the illnesses, which were reported to the EPA on March 20. Paramedics were called to the villa, which the family was renting. Esmond was found unconscious ; the boys and their mother were having seizures, Maron said. The lawyer did not say who called the paramedics. Elias Rodriguez, an EPA spokesman, said the agency's preliminary test results ``do show that there was a presence of methyl bromide in the unit where the family was staying.''. Exposure to methyl bromide can result in serious health effects, including central nervous system and respiratory system damage, according to the EPA. The use of the pesticide is restricted in the United States because of its acute toxicity. It's not allowed to be used indoors. Only certified professionals are permitted to use it in certain agricultural settings. For example, the pesticide is injected into the soil of some U.S. strawberry fields, said Judith Enck, an EPA regional administrator. ``We trust that the strawberry producers are making sure that there's not excess pesticide residue on strawberries,'' Enck said. ``You definitely want to wash them really good. ``This is a pesticide that's been around for a long time, and ironically because of its impact and damage to the ozone layer, it's being phased out because of the air impacts of this fumigant,'' Enck added. Field workers at a Connecticut nursery were poisoned by the chemical in 1990, according to the Journal of Industrial Medicine. In 2011, warehouse workers in California fell ill after exposed to grapes imported from Chile fumigated with methyl bromide, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN's chief medical correspondent, said many parts of the world banned the chemical, a neurotoxin. The agent is to be used only outdoors. The chemical is also odorless and colorless, Gupta said. ``It's not something that you would have any warning of,'' Gupta said. The chemical is often mixed with tear gas so people can be aware of its presence, he added. The EPA said it is working with local government agencies to investigate whether the family was made ill after a fumigation at the resort on March 18 and whether any environmental regulations or laws were violated. Enck, the EPA regional administrator, said paramedics were called early on March 20. Sea Glass Vacations, which acts as a rental agent for several units at Sirenusa, said the unit directly below the one where the family stayed was recently treated for pests, but that the family's unit was not treated. The company said it licensed an outside company, Terminix, for the pest control services. On Monday, it ended its contract with Terminix. In an email to CNN before the termination, a spokesman for Terminix wrote that the company is ``committed to performing all work.. in a manner that is safe for our customers, employees, the public and the environment'' and is ``looking into this matter internally, and cooperating with authorities.''. The U.S. Department of Justice has initiated a criminal investigation. ``Many questions remain why an odorless pesticide of this level of toxicity could be manufactured, distributed and applied in a residential area resulting in this family's injuries,'' Maron said. The attorney added : ``The family is confident that the responsible parties will be brought to justice and held accountable.''. CNN's Rob Frehse, Jean Casarez, Sara Ganim, Jason Hanna, Laura Ly and Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
Atlanta ( CNN ) A passenger on an Atlanta-bound Air Canada flight told a CNN reporter on the plane Friday that a stranger sitting behind him tried to choke him. Oliver Minatel, 22, said he was sleeping on Air Canada Flight 8623 from Toronto when he felt something around his neck. ``With a rope, something that he has, he just jumped on me. That's what happened,'' Minatel told CNN's Paula Newton moments after the incident. She was seated four rows behind Minatel, a professional soccer player traveling with his team. The incident occurred about a half-hour before the flight landed, after the pilots had begun their descent. ``I forced it ( the cord ) down and then other people came to help, and then I got out and he started saying that we were here to kill him,'' Minatel said. The man was not restrained for the rest of the trip, but the flight crew told him to stay seated with his seat belt on. The man kept trying to get out of his seat but other passengers yelled at him whenever he tried to stand up. The two-hour flight landed at Atlanta's Hartsfield airport at about 4:30 p.m. where it was met by U.S. authorities. The suspect was escorted off the plane. An FBI spokesman confirmed the agency responded to the incident. ``The passenger, however, was transported for medical/mental evaluation under the direction and coordination of the Atlanta Police Department,'' Special Agent Stephen Emmett said. ``While there are currently no federal charges pending, the facts of the matter are being relayed to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Atlanta.''. Minatel, a forward from Brazil, was traveling with his teammates from the Ottawa Fury Football Club of the second-division North American Soccer League. They are scheduled to play the Atlanta Silverbacks on Saturday. ``We're very thankful to everyone who came to the aid of Oliver and relieved that he's O.K. and ready to play in our game,'' Fury FC Head Coach Marc Dos Santos said in a statement posted on the team's website. Several witnesses said they saw the suspect try to choke Minatel with the cord of his headphones. Kevin Kerr says he was seated next to the suspect. ``He was talking about how this soccer team was trying to kill him. I thought he was maybe a deranged fan,'' said Kerr. Kerr said he fell asleep and he awakened to see the suspect trying to choke Minatel. ``I assisted to make sure that didn't happen,'' Kerr said. The Canadian businessman said he and members of the soccer team kept a close eye on the suspect as the plane landed to make sure he did not threaten other passengers.
( CNN ) There was a larger message in the article about a purported gang rape that Rolling Stone retracted on Sunday night -- a part of the story that was never disputed : The University of Virginia is under continuing investigation over how it handles sexual assault on campus. The school has never expelled a single student for sexual assault -- even when the student admitted to it. The Virginia attorney general asked the law firm of O'Melveny & Myers to take a look at how the university historically handled allegations of sexual assault by its students. That includes how UVA officials handled the allegations in the discredited Rolling Stone article by a student the magazine called ``Jackie,'' especially since the school knew about the allegations for more than a year before the article came out. The alleged gang rape at a fraternity house was in 2012, and Jackie told the university about it the next spring. She started telling her story very publicly, including at a ``take back the night'' rally. But Charlottesville police didn't hear about it until after a separate incident in the spring of 2014, in which Jackie claimed someone threw a bottle that hit her in the face. When a university dean arranged for her to talk to police about that alleged assault, she also told the story of the alleged 2012 incident. In both cases, police said Jackie refused to cooperate and so they could not pursue the case. But more women came forward to talk about their experiences -- women whose stories were not as dramatic or horrific as Jackie's. Rolling Stone's story opened up a conversation about the topic, and then women began coming forward to talk about a culture on campus that was not sensitive to victims. Many women told CNN about a euphemism for the word rape used by other students on campus. They'd call it a ``bad experience.''. Others told CNN that there were fraternities with reputations for being ``rapey'' and for using date-rape drugs. That some judged who could come in based on the sluttiness of a woman's outfit. And if a woman did report her rape, some women complained that the internal process didn't seem worth it if their abuser wouldn't be kicked out of school. Rolling Stone had a line in its original story : ``UVA's emphasis on honor is so pronounced that since 1998, 183 people have been expelled for honor-code violations such as cheating on exams. And yet paradoxically, not a single student at UVA has ever been expelled for sexual assault.''. After the article published, UVA admitted this and instituted a zero-tolerance policy on sexual assault going forward -- although that policy was never defined, so it's unclear what it means. When the story was deleted from Rolling Stone's website, that was lost. ``You lose a lot of other people's voices who were in that article,'' said Sarah Roderick, a survivor and UVA student, ``and a lot of good things that could have come about. Fixing problems with administration here and on our campus'' -- and, she added, across the nationo. Along with the O'Melveny & Myers investigation, there's also an open Title IX investigation into UVA by the U.S. Department of Education as a result of a civil suit. The attorney who filed the suit, James Marsh, told CNN that UVA medical staff lost or destroyed evidence from the alleged sexual assault victim he's representing, making it impossible for her to move forward and get justice. When the Columbia Journalism School's 12,000-plus-word critique is summed up, it really boils down to this : The mistake could have been avoided if the writer, Sabrina Rubin Erdely, had picked up the phone and made just a few more phone calls to the friends of Jackie who she claimed were with her that night. They'd later tell other media outlets, including CNN, that they remembered a very different story. Rolling Stone says their account would have been a red flag. And all three say they would have talked if they'd been called. Ryan Duffin, one of the trio, said he felt deceived by Jackie, but he also pointed out that Erdely's mistake in fact-checking was about one single incident, and the fallout has caused a much bigger issue to be lost. ``Had she gotten in direct contact with us, it probably wouldn't have been printed, at least in that way,'' he said. ``A lot of the article was still based in truth, but the focal point would have been different.''. It might have been less dramatic, but it would have probably focused on some of the other UVA students who shared much more common stories of acquaintance rape on campus. ``I think my problem with it was that this reporter wanted to sensationalize an experience that's not very common,'' Roderick said.''.. And I wonder if it would have been different if ( it dealt ) with someone with a less horrific story -- something that happens to more people. I think this discredits what a lot of survivors go through. Something this physically horrific is not what everyone goes through. Now it's like, `If I wasn't assaulted by more than one man then my story is not as worthy of attention.' It's frustrating that this is how rape is portrayed on college campuses because this is not the norm.''. Before the report came out, Abraham Axler, the student body president, said that some good had come from the article because it forced UVA to institute new policies and to open up a conversation on a topic that needed to be discussed nationwide. But some survivors and advocates are afraid the retraction set back their progress. ``I do feel like there's a possibility people will be afraid to come forward. If you come forward and share your story, if you don't have the date right, every detail down, you'll think, `I'm going to be accused of being a liar. It's easier for me to keep it to myself,''' Roderick said. ``There are very serious and unresolved questions about the university's performance,'' said Steve Coll, dean of the Columbia School of Journalism. ``Rolling Stone teed that subject up. I wouldn't say that everything about Rolling Stone's treatment of that subject was perfect, but it certainly doesn't fall under the same category as their reporting about Jackie's narrative.''
( CNN ) Saturday at the Masters, like any PGA tournament, has been dubbed `Moving Day'. It's the day after the fat has been cut and the big dogs make their move up -- or occasionally down -- the leader board. Players rose and players fell away on Moving Day at the 2015 Masters. Rory McIlroy went out in 32 and briefly raised the crowd's hopes that he had a sniff of completing an improbable Grand Slam on Sunday night. But he dropped two shots late on in the round to finish six under par. Woods comeback ?. A rejuvenated Tiger Woods showed touches of his old class mixed with the ragged unpredictability that has marked his new game to finish six under too. A huge improvement, but still a long way from him wearing the green jacket again. ``It could have been a super low today,'' a disappointed Woods said after his round. ``All in all. It should have been two shots better.''. Phil Mickelson powered around the course, threatening to challenge too, finishing on eleven under. As did a late Justin Rose surge, where he fired four birdies in a row to finish twelve under and in second place. In the end, there was lots of moving, but no one could move quick enough or far enough to trouble Jordan Spieth. Infallible. The 21 year old has been nothing short of a sensation at Augusta. His infallible first two rounds gave the 21 year old from Dallas, Texas a five shot lead going in to the third round. That has happened only three times at Augusta before, and on all three occasions the leader has gone on to win. Spieth's 15 birdies are just 10 away from Phil Mickelson's Masters mark set in 2001. He could also break Tiger Woods 270 set in 1997. As it happened, Spieth played a steady, almost conservative round. When he made the occasional mistake, like the bogey at 15, he hit back straight away with a birdie next hole. As his third round came to a close the birdies flowed, his putting impeccable. The only nerves on show came during the last two holes with a double bogey at the 17. Echos of 1996 ?. When reminded of some of the great Augusta comebacks, including Nick Faldo's 11 shot swing in 1996, Tiger Woods still believes anything is possible. ``It really is,'' he said. ``We saw what happened in 1996. You never know. It depends on the conditions.''. He is, of course, right. As Greg Norman knows only too well, anything can happen on the final day. But that kind of crescendo also depends on Spieth experiencing a Greg Norman-style meltdown. Spieth's double bogey on the 17th and wobble on the 18th will give the chasing pack some hope. Yet, for all the movement of Mickelson, Woods, Rose and McIlroy, they made just a one shot dent into Spieth's second round lead. He will begin Sunday four shots ahead.
( CNN ) ``Star Wars'' is once again back in our lives, the Burger-King couple helped us believe love can be found in fast food, and Mindy Kaling's brother had a shocking announcement. Those are just a few of the stories that trended this week. 1. `Star Wars' streaming. The Force is with the streaming device of your choice, thanks to this week's surprise announcement that the entire ``Star Wars'' saga ( so far, anyway ) would be released on digital HD at the end of the week. Between this and the release of ``Daredevil,'' we imagine lots of nerds called in sick on Friday. 2. Mindy Kaling's brother : I faked being black to get into medical school. Actress Mindy Kaling's brother says that he posed as a black man years ago to get into medical school and that the experience opened his eyes to what he calls the hypocrisy of affirmative action. Among those who disapprove of the book he's planning to write about the whole thing : his sister. 3. Farewell, Rosco. ``Dukes of Hazzard'' fans mourned the loss of actor James Best, best known as Hazzard County's hapless sheriff Rosco P. Coltrane, this week. Others who passed on : ``L.A. Law'' actor Richard Dysart and frequent Clint Eastwood co-star Geoffrey Lewis. 4. When Burger met King, it was love. Joel Burger is set to marry Ashley King in July, and when fast food giant Burger King got wind of the nuptials, the couple scored a free wedding. 5. Michelle Obama broke it down ( again ). The first lady's Let's Move campaign has featured her dancing on more than one occasion, but she brought the ( White ) House down on Monday with the ``So You Think You Can Dance'' all-stars during the Easter egg roll. 6. ``The Vampire Diaries'' crisis. Not since Zayn Malik announced that he was quitting One Direction has Twitter had such a meltdown : ``Vampire Diaries'' star Nina Dobrev is leaving the CW series. ``Nothing will be the same again,'' one fan tweeted. Other things we loved :. More than 10 million people have seen Anne Hathaway's take on Miley Cyrus' ``Wrecking Ball,'' complete with props, from Spike's hit show ``Lip Sync Battle.''. Go, greased lightning ! ``Late Late Show'' host and Tony winner James Corden put on ``Grease'' for Los Angeles drivers waiting in traffic. The cast of the movie ``Suicide Squad,'' including Will Smith and Margot Robbie, assembled for the first time this week in a Twitter photo from director David Ayer. And no worries, future Joker Jared Leto was taking the photo ( in an image inspired by classic comic book ``The Killing Joke'' ). The comments are the whole reason to read this ``Humans of New York'' post on a woman named Beyonce.
( CNN ) Bring your own beaker, goblet or vase and slurp it up. 7-Eleven is hosting the first Bring-Your-Own-Cup Slurpee Day at United States stores from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday to kick off peak Slurpee season. This shot at brain freeze isn't free, but customers at participating stores can fill their ``cup'' of choice for $ 1.49, the average cost of a medium Slurpee. Note : A garbage can is not a cup. In-store displays with a 10-inch-diameter hole will rule out anything too ridiculously large for Slurpee consumption, and cups must be sanitary. But within those parameters, pretty much anything goes :. ``From sand buckets to trophies, customers can unleash their creativity by bringing in their choice of a unique, fun Slurpee cup,'' said Laura Gordon, 7‑Eleven's vice president of marketing and brand innovation, in a statement. The promotion isn't to be confused with Free Slurpee Day, traditionally celebrated each July 11.
( CNN ) The graffiti, written in a French chalk quarry and dating back almost 100 years, is plain and stark. ``HJ Leach. Merely a private. 13/7/16. SA Australia,'' reads one inscription. ``HA Deanate, 148th Aero Squadron, USA. 150 Vermilyea Ave, New York City,'' another says. ``9th Batt Australians, G. Fitzhenry, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., 1916 July ; Alistair Ross, Lismore, July,'' reads a third. They were World War I soldiers, four of almost 2,000, whose writings have recently been found underneath battlefields near Naours, France, about 120 miles north of Paris. Photographer Jeff Gusky, who has been chronicling details of the site, describes the inscriptions -- and the underground city in which they were found -- as ``breathtaking.''. ``This is a treasure trove,'' he said Monday night from his home in East Texas, where he works as an ER doctor. ``Even locally, no one realized what was there.''. Gusky, a National Geographic photographer, has chronicled the area in a portfolio he calls ``The Hidden World of WWI.''. The revelations of the underground city, which extends for miles in some directions, have come to light recently only because of a series of events, Gusky said. The underground city actually dates back centuries but was sealed up in the 18th century. It was rediscovered in the late 19th century. During World War I, soldiers would take refuge in the carved-out rooms and pathways. The front was sometimes mere miles away ; the Battle of the Somme, one of the bloodiest in world history, was fought nearby in 1916. The land was privately owned for many years and generally off-limits to outsiders, said Gusky, but it changed hands in 2013. The rights to operate it were purchased by a consortium of villages that wanted to promote awareness of the area's history, he said. Researching the city is a painstaking task. For one thing, it's dark, so observers generally haven't realized what's in there until they've gone exploring. Moreover, the maze-like extensiveness of the site has made discovery a slow process. ``They go on and on and on. They're so elaborate in some places, there are maps carved into stone so the soldiers wouldn't get lost,'' he said. The graffiti looks like it was written yesterday, he added. Gusky has noted 1,821 names. About 40 % are Australian, with most of the others identified as British. Fifty-five are Americans, and 662 have yet to be traced. For Gusky, the graffiti provides a human connection with men who lived a century ago. In many cases, they just wanted to be remembered, he said. ``Someone could be in this place one day and the next fighting at the front,'' he said. Leach, ``merely a private,'' was killed a month later in battle, Gusky observed. ``It could very well have been the last time he recorded his name as a living, breathing human being,'' he said. 7 things you didn't know about the man who started WWI.
Durham, North Carolina ( CNN ) President Obama's nomination of Loretta Lynch to become the country's first African-American woman attorney general is a historic pick. Her confirmation, however, is now taking on new historical relevance as her wait for a confirmation vote by the full Senate drags into its sixth month. The period between the Senate Judiciary Committee's vote to confirm and the full Senate vote -- which in Lynch's case has not been scheduled -- has lasted longer for her than for any attorney general nominee in recent history. By the time the Senate returns from Easter recess on Monday, it'll have been longer than the eight previous nominees for the job -- combined. Lynch, currently the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, cleared the committee February 26 by a vote of 12-8, with Republican Sens. Orrin Hatch of Utah, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Jeff Flake of Arizona joining Democrats in sending the nomination to the full Senate. Obama nominated Lynch to replace Attorney General Eric Holder on November 8, after Holder had announced plans to leave the post weeks earlier. Hundreds of miles from Washington, longtime residents of Durham, North Carolina, were beaming with pride. Lynch's family moved to the city when she was a child. Her parents, married for 60 years, still live there. They watched the announcement on television. ``That was encouraging but I knew then that we had a fight on our hands,'' said Lynch's father, the Rev. Lorenzo Lynch. ``I've been in politics most of my life. I know that nothing is certain, and I know that nothing is easy.''. Lorenzo Lynch, 82, is a retired Baptist preacher and was active in the civil rights movement of the 1960s. He ran, unsuccessfully, for mayor of Durham in 1973. For the next round of his daughter's ``fight,'' he traveled to Washington in late January to attend his daughter's confirmation hearing before the Judiciary Committee. ``I heard a lot at that hearing that I've heard since childhood. That is the presupposition of the mindset,'' Lorenzo Lynch said. ``The dual system or the dual treatment.''. When asked to provide specific examples, Lorenzo Lynch deferred to the state branch of the NAACP and E. Lavonia Allison, a Durham activist who has known Loretta Lynch since the family moved to Durham. ``I don't want to think about the epidermis, but some people are thinking that way,'' Allison said, suggesting that Lynch's confirmation vote has been delayed because Lynch is African-American. ``When it has taken so long, when it has been so different from any other person who has been nominated.. how else can we interpret that it is so different ?'' Allison said. In March, Rep. G.K. Butterfield, D-North Carolina, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, said, ``I think race certainly can be considered as a major factor in the reason for this delay, but it's also the irrationality of the new Republicans.''. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Illinois, evoked imagery of the segregated South in criticism of Republicans, saying Lynch had been ``asked to sit in the back of the bus when it comes to the Senate calendar.''. Durbin was harshly criticized by Arizona's Sen. John McCain. ``I deeply regret that the senator from Illinois chose to come here yesterday and question the integrity and motivation, mine and my Republican colleagues,'' McCain said on the Senate floor. ``It was offensive and unnecessary, and I think he owes this body, Ms. Lynch and all Americans an apology,'' McCain added. ``I thought he should be commended,'' Lorenzo Lynch said. ``I think that's a poetic description of what has happened and poetry, like most language, is limited but it does have wings.. to carry a point.''. Giuliani pushes for Lynch confirmation. Senate Republicans adamantly deny the delay in scheduling a vote on Lynch's nomination is because she is African-American. Many point out that Lynch, if confirmed, will be replacing the country's first African-American attorney general who was confirmed by an overwhelming margin. Instead, Republicans and Democrats say the delay is part of an ongoing partisan battle. For some, it's part of a fight over a human trafficking bill that has stalled in the Senate. For others, the delay is retaliation for President Obama's 2014 executive actions on immigration. On the eve of Holder's announcement of his plans to leave the Department of Justice, the political number crunchers at FiveThirtyEight.com predicted that whoever the President nominated would ``likely face at least a moderately tough confirmation hearing in the Senate.''. Some of Lynch's supporters across North Carolina have organized to convince the state's two Republican senators to support Lynch's confirmation. In March, several dozen North Carolina women, led by the NAACP, traveled to Washington to meet with their senators, Richard Burr and Thom Tillis. Reportedly, the meeting lasted nearly an hour and was very cordial. At a news conference at the Washington Press Club, the group blasted the senators for opposing the nomination. ``Senator Burr and Senator Tillis, it is time for you to act like you have some sense. It's past time. You have embarrassed the state of North Carolina,'' Allison said after the meeting. For their part, Burr and Tillis released a statement after the meeting : ``While we remain concerned with Ms. Lynch's stated desire to lead the Department of Justice in the same manner as Eric Holder and will not be supporting her nomination, we are grateful that the group came to Washington to talk about this issue and exchange ideas. Weeks later, the NAACP organized protests outside the senators' offices in Raleigh, Charlotte and Wilmington. ``I think there is a much deeper analysis,'' said North Carolina NAACP Branch President Rev. William Barber II. ``I believe if she had been Clarence Thomas, she would have been confirmed.''. ``Because of her courage, her character and her commitment to the law and to the enforcement of the laws of this land, particularly the 14th and 15th amendments to the Constitution, and because her consciousness was shaped in the crucible of the civil rights movement -- that is what they fear,'' Barber said. Obama turns up the heat on Loretta Lynch confirmation `limbo'. Lorenzo Lynch says he carried his daughter to several civil rights marches on his shoulders. He admits that he did not think that much of the recent progress of African-Americans was possible when he was fighting for equal rights. Now, his small living room is filled with stacks of loosely organized newspaper stories about his daughter's nomination and photos of his visit to the White House. Lynch admits that he's never told his only daughter that he's proud of her, although he's sure she knows it. He plans to change that, soon, regardless of the outcome of her pending nomination.
( CNN ) What was supposed to be a fantasy sports car ride at Walt Disney World Speedway turned deadly when a Lamborghini crashed into a guardrail. The crash took place Sunday at the Exotic Driving Experience, which bills itself as a chance to drive your dream car on a racetrack. The Lamborghini's passenger, 36-year-old Gary Terry of Davenport, Florida, died at the scene, Florida Highway Patrol said. The driver of the Lamborghini, 24-year-old Tavon Watson of Kissimmee, Florida, lost control of the vehicle, the Highway Patrol said. He was hospitalized with minor injuries. Petty Holdings, which operates the Exotic Driving Experience at Walt Disney World Speedway, released a statement Sunday night about the crash. ``On behalf of everyone in the organization, it is with a very heavy heart that we extend our deepest sympathies to those involved in today's tragic accident in Orlando,'' the company said. Petty Holdings also operates the Richard Petty Driving Experience -- a chance to drive or ride in NASCAR race cars named for the winningest driver in the sport's history. CNN's Vivan Kuo and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Are we alone in the cosmos ? Or might there be intelligent life elsewhere ?. Last week, NASA scientists discussed in very concrete terms the steps to discovering life elsewhere in the universe over the next decade or two. This year is the 20th anniversary of the discovery of a planet around a star like our own sun, 51 Pegasi. Since then, ground-based surveys and NASA's Kepler satellite have discovered nearly 2,000 confirmed ``exoplanets,'' and thousands more candidates await confirmation. Many of these planetary systems are quite unlike our own solar system. Some have large planets like Jupiter that orbit their stars far closer than Mercury, the innermost planet in our solar system. But smaller rocky planets like Earth, though harder to find, appear to be even more abundant. Life on Earth developed in its oceans about a billion years after the planet formed. That suggests that rocky planets with liquid water on their surfaces might also have developed primitive forms of life. Life as we know it is carbon-based and requires liquid water. Astronomers define the ``habitable zone'' around a star as the region within which liquid water can exist on a planet's surface. Any closer to the star, the water will boil into vapor ; any farther and the water freezes into ice. Extrapolating from discoveries to date, astronomers estimate there are perhaps 40 billion Earth-like, habitable-zone planets in our Milky Way galaxy alone. Of course, there is a difference between single-celled organisms -- which developed 3.8 billion years ago and remained the most sophisticated form of life for another billion years or so -- and mammals, which appeared about 200 million years ago. And then the humans, who have existed for only 200,000 years. Intelligent life that can communicate via radio waves with other intelligent life is less than 100 years old here on Earth. So while planets that develop simple forms of life may be a dime a dozen, the number that have sentient beings with whom to converse -- even assuming they evolved as humans did, with ears and spoken language, or eyes and written language -- is likely to be tiny. And life that can use radio waves has existed on Earth for only 0.000002 % of the planet's history -- 100 years out of 4.5 billion. If the half dozen or so rocky, Earth-like exoplanets now known are similar, the odds of discovering humanlike life on them are about the same as, well, winning your state lottery with one ticket. Of course, if there are 40 billion Earth-like planets out there, the odds improve quite a bit. If they all have histories like the Earth's, there might be 1,000 planets in the Milky Way that could support communicative beings. But before you start composing your first letter to an alien, think about this : The chance that those beings evolved on exactly the same time scale is minuscule. Another planet's 100 years of brilliance might have occurred a billion years ago, or it might happen a billion years in the future. A lot depends on how long communication capabilities last. Civilizations that can build huge telescopes and broadcast stations also have the technology to destroy their planet. So the duration of the Communication Age on a planet could be short. Not to mention : The average light-travel-time to such a planet could be tens of thousands of years, so unless humans evolve to be ageless, we're not exchanging IMs with aliens anytime soon. If advanced civilizations can maintain their capabilities for millions of years or more, the chances of communicating with them are not negligible. But in that case, they are likely to be far more sophisticated than we are ( since they developed the capability far earlier than we did ) -- so if they wanted us to know they exist, wouldn't they simply tell us ?. The SETI project has been listening for such broadcasts for more than 30 years in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. Probably the most likely form of life on exoplanets is far more primitive. Astronomers have found signatures of organic molecules, the building blocks of life, in the interstellar material that permeates the space between stars in our galaxy. Possible signatures of living organisms on distant exoplanets include an oxygen-rich atmosphere, such as that created by the first bacteria on Earth, or perhaps methane or carbon dioxide. NASA's James Webb Space Telescope, to be launched in 2018, will look for evidence of life in the atmospheres of rocky, habitable exoplanets. NASA's rovers have shown that Mars was once much more habitable. It had fresh-water lakes and streams of water running along its surface. Some water still remains, and there may yet be life discovered on Mars. New missions plan to look at Europa and Ganymede, moons of Jupiter that have liquid water below their icy surfaces. Life elsewhere in the universe, and even elsewhere in our own Milky Way galaxy, is practically inevitable. Signs of life on exoplanets orbiting nearby stars will probably be discovered in the coming decades with advanced telescopes. But the chance of talking to those little green men will probably have to wait for another few hundred million years.
London ( CNN ) It wasn't messrs Clooney, Pitt and their nine accomplices who sailed down an elevator shaft and cracked open dozens of safety deposit boxes at a London vault during the Easter weekend. But last weekend's raid in the heart of the city's jewelry district feels like it has been taken from a movie like ``Ocean 11'' given its daring and planning. Such robberies are rare : the gang didn't follow the current criminal trend of manipulating digits in cyber space but instead went back to basics and committed their burglary in a way not seen in London for more than 40 years. In September 1971, the staff of a bank in Baker Street, central London, arrived at work to find that thieves had dug a 40-yard tunnel from a shop they had rented, hauled in a thermic lance and explosives and opened the strong room. The gang got away with a haul worth around # 30 million ( the incident later formed the basis of the movie ``The Bank Job.'' ). But how are such heists organized ? Roy Ramm, a former commander of specialist operations at London's Scotland Yard for 27 years, explains. In the UK burglaries and robberies are often committed by working-class people, people who would otherwise have blue collar jobs. In more than 25 years as a Scotland Yard detective, I never met a Raffles - or a Thomas Crown-style criminal from a middle-class background who had then turned to the hard side of crime. Sophisticated heists like the Hatton Garden raid are generally not a natural progression for burglars who began with smaller domestic break-ins. Many neighborhood criminals commit burglaries to feed drugs habits and acquire long strings of convictions that mean they are always on the police radar. Occasionally, they steal things they can't sell and end up dumping valuable paintings or antiques when they are not able to sell them on quickly. More specialist criminals -- those, for example, who target museums or country houses -- will be very specific and steal only what they know they can quickly convert to untraceable cash. Many of those who commit the bigger crimes or run major criminal enterprises combine high IQs with a kind of raw street intelligence. One of their skills is the ability to recognize a criminal opportunity when it presents itself, possibly from a source of inside information. Probably the biggest difference between any heist you'll see in a movie and its real-life equivalent is the motive. I've never encountered any criminal who committed a high value crime just for the challenge or to prove that it could be done. The only reason has been for the money, often to support a certain lifestyle and to fund other criminal enterprises. Inside information is one way of identifying a criminal opportunity, using people who are able to provide that crucial detail or who will participate in some small way to facilitate the crime. The Brinks MAT robbery in 1983 -- a case which I was involved in at the time -- saw a criminal gang escape with gold bullion worth more than # 28 million ( around # 88 million -- or $ 130million -- adjusting for inflation ) from a warehouse at London's Heathrow Airport. The Knightsbridge safety deposit robbery of 1987 saw a gang make off with tens of millions of pounds in cash and valuables from an upscale London neighbourhood ( the true amount will never be known ). Both were made possible by inside information : it's an angle that London detectives investigating last weekend's heist will be looking at very closely. The planning behind the Hatton Garden raid will have been meticulous. The target will have been observed, perhaps for months, and the thieves will have decided on the right time to commit the crime. A long weekend or a public holiday are occasions when more time may be available, also perhaps when regular staff are away. Sometimes the mastermind behind the raid will need a larger team of criminals to do a specific job. Usually they will already be known directly to each other, perhaps because they worked on other jobs together. Possibly a specialist can be brought in by another team member -- but they have to be able to trust each other and trust comes from understanding, so gangs in the UK tend to come from the same social and ethnic group, maybe even limited to one relatively small geographic area. Even though there is more diversity in society, it would be unusual to find a broad ethnic or social mix in the team put together for a major crime. Vehicles will have been obtained, stolen or purchased for cash and their identities cloned or changed. Equipment will have been sourced. Everything will have been cleaned, cleaned and cleaned again to remove forensic traces. They will plan routes that avoid CCTV and timings that attract the least attention. They will have untraceable disposable phones and an outside team to warn the inside men of any problems. They will have planned their getaway, their clean-up and how and when they are going to dispose of anything that might link them to the crime scene -- and of course how they are going to sell on the proceeds of their crime. What criminals steal doesn't vary that much. Cash is probably first choice, followed by anything that can quickly and easily be converted to cash, like gold, jewellery and watches. The conversion of stolen goods to cash is risky and expensive : the Brinks MAT bullion that was traced was because it had been clumsily smelted and then sold on. Fine paintings and rare antiques are less desirable for experienced criminals -- unless they are stealing to order -- because they are so identifiable and because the black market is so much smaller. A painting may sell at an international auction for millions of dollars but it will only fetch a fraction of its true value from a dishonest collector. London detectives investigating the Hatton Garden heist will be looking very closely at the possibility of inside involvement. But police enquiries won't stop there. They will look at every aspect of how the target business operates, then try to think like criminals to identify the weaknesses in physical and operational security that the gang may have been informed about or else spotted and then exploited. The forensic assault on the crime scene will be immense. In recent years forensic science has made major advances in identifying trace evidence and investigators will look for any scrap of evidence that might yield the DNA of a criminal. CCTV footage from street cameras and from inside private premises will be analyzed and vehicle movements logged and cross-checked. Rewards for information will be offered. Witnesses will interviewed. In the police's criminal intelligence branch, the movements of known criminals will be analyzed and the networks of sources -- informers -- will be tasked to report what they hear. The details of any identifiable goods which have been stolen will be circulated to known markets, both in the UK and internationally. The detectives investigating these major crimes in the UK see them as an exciting challenge to their professionalism. They don't admire the criminals but they have less contempt for a gang that builds a sophisticated plan and causes no personal harm to anyone than say for a violent robber. But the investigation will still be relentless.
( CNN ) The commissioner-general of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency will make an emergency visit to the Yarmouk Palestinian refugee camp in Syria on Saturday, a spokesman says. Commissioner-General Pierre Krähenbühl will assess the humanitarian situation in the camp and speak with individuals about ways to relieve the suffering of the people who remain there. ``The visit is prompted by UNRWA's deepening concern for the safety and protection of 18,000 Palestinians and Syrian civilians, including 3,500 children,'' agency spokesman Christopher Gunness told CNN's Paula Newton. ``Yarmouk remains under the control of armed groups, and civilian life continues to be threatened by the effects of the conflict.''. Krähenbühl will meet with senior Syrian officials, U.N. and relief agency staff members, and displaced people from the camp itself. The Yarmouk refugee camp, which sits just 6 miles from central Damascus, has been engulfed in fighting between the Syrian government and armed groups since December 2012. The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says the militant group ISIS and the al Qaeda-affiliated Al-Nusra Front control about 90 % of the camp. The organization also claims that the Syrian government has dropped barrel bombs on the camp as recently as Sunday in an effort to drive out armed groups. Yarmouk was formed in 1957 to accommodate people displaced by the Arab-Israeli conflict and is the largest Palestinian refugee camp in Syria. The U.N. relief agency estimates that there were 160,000 people in the camp when the conflict began in 2011 between forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and opposition fighters. That number has dropped to about 18,000, according to estimates. Yarmouk has been largely cut off from aid since November 2013. There have been widespread reports of malnutrition and shortages of medical care. ``We will not abandon hope,'' Gunness said. ``We will not submit to pessimism, because to abandon hope would be to abandon the people of Yarmouk.. We can not abandon the people of Yarmouk, and we will not, hence this mission.''
( CNN ) Fans of the late actor Paul Walker knew that watching him in ``Furious 7'' would be bittersweet. Even so, many moviegoers said the final scenes of the new film, which earned a record $ 146 million over the weekend, still packed an emotional wallop. ``Not gon na lie, I shed a few tears at the end of Furious 7. The tribute to Paul Walker was very well done,'' one woman said Monday on Twitter. Hers was just one of a flood of messages on social media from people who said they got choked up during scenes featuring Walker, who died at 40 in a car crash in November 2013, before filming on ``Furious 7'' was completed. To finish Walker's scenes, the makers of the movie used body doubles, computer-generated images and even the actor's brothers. But it was the ending that really got to moviegoers. In finishing ``Furious 7,'' the film's producers sought to retire Walker's character, Brian, while paying homage to his role in the blockbuster ``Furious'' action franchise. But they felt that killing him off might appear exploitative. ``If they had gone down the other path, I think I would have refused to finish making this movie,'' director James Wan told BuzzFeed. Instead, the movie's makers chose to ``retire Paul's character in the most sincere and elegant way ( they ) could,'' Wan said. Their idea was to have Brian retire from his dangerous, high-octane lifestyle out of a sense of responsibility to his growing family with girlfriend Mia, who is pregnant with their second child. A scene late in the movie shows him and Mia playing on a beach with their son while the crew looks on -- essentially saying goodbye. Then his longtime buddy Dom reminisces about their years together, leading to a montage of Walker scenes from the first six movies. The song that plays over the montage is ``See You Again,'' a collaboration between Wiz Khalifa and Charlie Puth. Co-star Vin Diesel shared the video for the song late Sunday on his Facebook page, where it has more than 1.5 million likes. Fans on Twitter and Facebook mostly praised the movie's ending as a fitting tribute -- and an emotionally wrenching one. ``Man I don't care how tough u are or how gangsta u claim to be.. the last five minutes had me choked up in the movie theater.. I saw it 3 times in one day... the ending is the deepest ending I've ever seen,'' one man wrote on the movie's Facebook page.
( CNN ) Recently, a New York judge issued an opinion authorizing service of divorce papers on a husband completely via Facebook. What exactly is ``service of process'' ?. Serving people with legal papers is an industry and its own body of law premised on one guiding principle : if you are going to sue someone, you should at least let them know about it. Sounds simple, right ? In theory it is. In practice, it turns out people don't like being sued. It also turns out that, to many defendants, procrastination of a lawsuit is a viable defense. Just as you may avoid bad news in life, defendants tend to avoid process servers. Once a defendant has been served, that means the judicial proceedings begin. Unfortunately, that means defendants have an incentive to go ``off the grid''. Although every state is different, the law of service of process has evolved this way : the ideal and fairest way to notify a person of a lawsuit is to have another human hand the papers to the defendant in person, and have some proof that the person was the defendant. In-person service is not always possible, for obvious reasons. So, the law had to develop methods of alternate service, but carefully balance a defendant's right to have notice of a lawsuit, against a diligent plaintiff's access to court if a defendant is avoiding the inevitable. As reliable as the U.S. mail is, regular mail is not a reliable form of serving papers. Not because the postmen can't be trusted ; they can. Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor gloom of night, will keep them from delivering those papers. Instead, it's defendants -- no wait, all of humanity -- that can't be trusted. Every one of us has ignored mail or even pretended we didn't get it. Defendants are no different. One form of alternate service is ``nail and mail'' service. This means that you take a hammer and nail, and nail the papers to the defendant's front door. The problem with that is that many defendants are nomadic by nature. Just because you find a house that a defendant stayed at, doesn't mean he'll be back there anytime soon. Another, even odder form of ``service'' is service by publication. This is an almost laughable legal fiction. If you can't find a defendant, a judge might let you serve by publication. That means that a plaintiff can take out an ad in five point font for a week in an obscure publication, on the off chance you are reading the classified ads of the Secaucus Law Journal looking for lawsuits against you. As laughable as serving someone by tweeting it sounds, it's at least more rational than this antiquated method. At first blush, the idea of service by Facebook seems to offend traditional notions of ensuring notification of a defendant of a case against him. When it comes to serving papers, however, ``traditional'' doesn't necessarily mean ``good.'' Service by publication or nailing paper to the door of an empty apartment is hardly reliable ; it's just service of last resort. For those people who are concerned that being served papers will become a Facebook announcement in a news feed, along with the photos of dinner or kittens, to be ``liked'' by all your gawking ``friends,'' we're not quite there.. yet. While the older forms of alternate service were public, most electronic service takes the form of email. Where email isn't available, it is Facebook private messaging, which should be as private as email. That's the form of service authorized by the court here. So for now, we're not quite putting lawsuits on Instagram.. but I wouldn't rule it out in the future. Online service may be a new frontier, but it's not unheard of. Most of us exist more online now than we ``live'' in a particular condo, or Mom's basement. Virtually everyone has a phone or access to the Internet. Not everyone has a lease or a mortgage. Plus, online service has the added benefit of tracking. Believe me, somewhere, some computer has already logged the fact that you read this article, how long you read it, and even how far down you scrolled before you got bored and bailed on the article ( thanks for still being here, by the way ). In a way, maybe online service is long overdue. You can outrun a process server for a while, but sooner or later, all of us have to go back online -- and no human can outrun an email.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) The original cast of Twin Peaks is backing David Lynch in his salary standoff with Showtime. The stars have teamed together for a video backing the show's co-creator with a #SaveTwinPeaks campaign that says doing the revival without Lynch is ``like pies without cherries,'' among other nods to the original drama series. Sherilyn Fenn, Sheryl Lee, James Marshall, Peggy Lipton and other familiar faces from the series appear in the video. ( Some members have also set up a Facebook page. ). Showtime renews `Shameless,' orders `Happyish' to series. Lynch announced Sunday that he was exiting Showtime's nine-episode revival over a salary dispute. He originally signed on to direct the project but noted that there was ``not enough money offered to do the script the way I felt needed to be done.''. Showtime already had a deal in place with Lynch and co-creator Mark Frost to bring back the cult hit with star Kyle MacLachlan for a run in 2016, with sources telling THR that the scripts had already been written. Showtime chief on `Twin Peaks' plans, `Homeland' backlash and free speech. For its part, Showtime noted that it ``continues to hold out hope'' that Twin Peaks can be brought back with both its creators at the helm. MacLachlan is the only cast member currently confirmed for the reboot. Lynch to leave `Twin Peaks' reboot. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Tejano star Selena, who died 20 years ago, is coming back in a big way : with a hologram-like figure. Billboard reports that the singer's family is creating a version of the singer that will be ``walking, talking, singing and dancing digital embodiment'' of her persona. ``By no means is this something that's creepy or weird,'' her sister, Suzette Quintanilla, told Billboard. ``We think it's something amazing. A lot of the new fans that did not get to experience what Selena was about hopefully will be able to get a sense of her with this new technology that's going to be coming out.''. Selena : 20 years after her death. The technology is being handled by Acrovirt LLC, a Nevada-based tech company. ``Using detailed individual personalized functions spanning the mind, brain and body, the individual's Digitized Human Essence will autonomously learn and react on behalf of its human counterpart's,'' the company explained. The project is being called ``Selena the One.''. Twenty years after she was killed by her fan club president, Selena remains incredibly popular, with her Facebook page recording 2 million likes and fans continuing to post videos and tributes. Selena will be the first figure to use the Acrovirt technology, Quintanilla said. ``I'm excited at the fact that she will be the first ever, and the fact that she's a Latina makes it even more awesome,'' she said. ``It's not about replacing Selena in any shape, way or form ; it's just something to help her legacy continue growing.''. The family intends to expand her legacy in another way : with some new music. Selena the One ``will release new songs and videos, will collaborate with current hit artists, and aims to go on tour in 2018,'' said a statement on Selena's Facebook page. Selena isn't the first performer to try the virtual route. A Michael Jackson hologram appeared at the Billboard Music Awards in 2014, and a hologram of Tupac Shakur performed at Coachella in 2012. But the new technology is a step forward, Quintanilla said. ``People don't realize how fast technology is moving,'' she told Billboard. ``This is something that we're building for another two to three years, so when 2018 comes around they'll be like, `Oh, OK, we get it.'''. Fans can join an Indiegogo campaign, www.selenatheone.com, to support the launch. The campaign, which hopes to raise $ 500,000, begins April 16. The commemorative Fiesta de la Flor in Corpus Christi, Texas -- which celebrates her life -- is scheduled for April 17 and 18. CNN's Katia Hetter contributed to this story.
( CNN ) Gastrointestinal illness has gripped 100 people on the cruise ship Celebrity Infinity, according to a report from the Centers for Disease Control. Of the ship's 2,117 passengers, 95 have suffered from vomiting, diarrhea and other symptoms, the CDC said. The illness has also affected five members of the 964-person crew. The CDC has yet to determine what's causing the ailments. Two staffers from the agency are scheduled to meet the West Coast-based ship in San Diego on Monday. The Infinity left San Diego on March 29. It made its last stop in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, on April 10, according to MarineTraffic.com. Celebrity Cruises has been taking action since the outbreak began, including increasing cleaning and disinfection procedures, keeping passengers informed and taking specimens from the afflicted for testing by the CDC, the agency says. According to the Maritime Executive, this is the third time the Celebrity Infinity has suffered an outbreak of gastrointestinal illness, with others occurring in 2006 and 2013. The ship was built in 2001 and refurbished in 2011.
( CNN ) Five young Chinese feminists, whose detention has provoked an international outcry, may face up to five years in prison over their campaign for gender equality. The women were among detained on March 6 and March 7 in three Chinese cities -- Beijing, Guangzhou and Hangzhou -- shortly before events they had planned for International Women's Day on March 8. Wang Qiushi, the lawyer for one of the women, Wei Tingting, said police had recommended on April 6 that prosecutors press charges of ``assembling a crowd to disturb public order.''. Wang told CNN that prosecutors had to decide whether to pursue the charges within seven days of the submission -- by Monday. ``We hope that the prosecutors will not approve a formal arrest warrant, following the laws and standing up to pressure,'' he said. ``But nobody knows what to expect till Monday ; we can do nothing but wait.''. The five were initially held on suspicion of ``picking quarrels and provoking trouble.'' Wang said he didn't know why the charge against the women changed. ``Neither should constitute a crime,'' he said. Campaign group Amnesty International said the new charge was less serious but still carried a maximum jail term of five years. ``The women were doing nothing wrong, nothing illegal. They were simply calling for an end to sexual harassment,'' William Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International told CNN. ``Everything they were doing was in line with China's own laws and policies.''. Wang said that Wei had been subject to lengthy cross examinations during her detention but was well the last time they met on March 31. Two of the women are said to be in poor health. He added that the charges relate both to the activities the women planned for International Women's Day and earlier campaigns against domestic violence and for more public toilets for women. The five -- who are members of China's Women's Rights Action Group -- had planned to hand out stickers printed with slogans saying ``stop sexual harassment, let us stay safe'' and ``go police, go arrest those who committed sexual harassment !'' on women's day. The detention of Wei, along with Wu Rongrong, Li Tingting, Wang Man and Zheng Churan has drawn harsh criticism from the international community. Protests have taken place in several cities, including Hong Kong, that urge Chinese officials to ``free the five.'' A social media campaign also uses the phrase as a hashtag. On Monday, Hillary Clinton, former U.S. secretary of state, tweeted that the activists' detention was ``inexcusable.''. Her comment drew a rebuke from Chinese authorities, who said public figures should respect China's sovereignty and independence. Maya Wang, China researcher at Human Rights Watch, said the activists were best known for their ``performance art'' style protests -- occupying public toilets to highlight long lines at women's restrooms, donning blood-spattered wedding gowns to protest domestic violence and shaving their heads to protest against barriers to higher education for women. ``These activists epitomize the spirit of the times. They are young, confident, ready to challenge established norms,'' Wang said. As China prepares to mark the anniversary of landmark UN Fourth World Conference on Women in September, it will be hard for authorities to justify detaining the activists, she added.
( CNN ) A judge this week sentenced a former TSA agent to six months in jail for secretly videotaping a female co-worker while she was in the bathroom, prosecutors said. During the investigation, detectives with the Metro Nashville Police Department in Tennessee also found that the agent, 33-year-old Daniel Boykin, entered the woman's home multiple times, where he took videos, photos and other data. Police found more than 90 videos and 1,500 photos of the victim on Boykin's phone and computer. The victim filed a complaint after seeing images of herself on his phone last year. Boykin plead guilty to unlawful photography, aggravated burglary and violation of the computer act, the Nashville District Attorney's Office said. Police said the incident happened in a TSA-only restroom, and that there was no evidence public restrooms were targeted. A TSA official tells CNN that Boykin worked in an administrative capacity and didn't engage in public security screening. Assistant District Attorney Amy Hunter said this case was one of the worst invasion of privacy cases she's seen. ``We are thankful that the sentence includes periodic confinement so that the sentence will hopefully make an impression on this defendant and others,'' Hunter said in a statement. The judge, Randall Wyatt, on Friday called the invasion of privacy ``egregious.''. His sentence also includes five and a half years of probation, which will include GPS monitoring. Boykin was terminated last year when the investigation began. ``TSA holds its employees to the highest ethical standards and has zero tolerance for misconduct in the workplace,'' TSA's Ross Feinstein said in a statement.
( CNN ) Those poor fish must have been wondering what the heck was happening to them. The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department has reported that a section of a fiberglass boat 20 or 30 feet long was spotted off the state's coast this week and has been towed into harbor. The debris is suspected to be from the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan on March 11, 2011. The boat fragment was found this week and towed to Newport, Oregon, where it is moored at a marina. Inside were found -- more than four years and 4,000 miles later, if officials' suspicions are correct -- some specimens of a variety of yellowtail jack fish normally found in Japanese waters. Biologists with the Oregon Coast Aquarium and Oregon State University's Hatfield Marine Science Center inspected the debris while it was still at sea and determined that the ecological threat posed by invasive species was small. The remnants of the boat will be dried out, inspected further and taken to a landfill. But for the yellowtail jack fish, the journey is not over. They'll be taken to the Oregon Coast Aquarium.
Havana, Cuba ( CNN ) All eyes are going to be on the new kid finally allowed to play and the big kid who for so long wanted nothing to do with him -- Cuba and the United States in the same diplomatic playground. Cuba pulled off a diplomatic coup by marshaling the support of other regional countries to insist on their attendance at the Summit of the Americas. And for the first time since 1962, the U.S. has not blocked Cuba's attempt to join. Now it's time to see how they play and who they play with -- especially Venezuela, which often falls out with Washington for crushing dissent at home and supplying Havana with billions of dollars in oil. Cuba is trying to re-establish itself at the two-day summit in Panama, arriving with more than 100 government officials, diplomats, small business people and artists. But Cuba's attempts to rebrand itself as an open, diverse society stumbled Wednesday when government supporters and anti-Castro supporters brawled in the streets of Panama. Video of the incident showed Cuban government officials exchanging punches and insults with dissidents until Panamanian police in riot gear broke up the melee. With the historic thawing in relations between the U.S. and Cuba, Washington now has urgent business to discuss with Havana. ``We have really big issues with the Cubans that do need to be solved,'' said Ambassador Vicki Huddleston, who served as the chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana. She added ``The Cubans are typical of their negotiating style. You think it's going to be easy because we have said `We are going to have good relations with you' and they say, `That's not exciting for us and it is for you.' So they are hard negotiators as they always have been.''. The forum could provide the opportunity to push forward an agreement to re-establish formal relations and re-open embassies after nearly four months of negotiations. While President Barack Obama is not scheduled to meet Cuban leader Raul Castro, U.S. officials said there will be opportunities for ``interaction'' between the two leaders. The first time the two heads of state met was in 2013 at Nelson Mandela's funeral. Their brief handshake captured the world's attention and lit up social media. Few people then knew that the two countries were secretly involved in negotiations to thaw five decades of deadlocked Cold War-era relations. Obama had said he had hoped a U.S. Embassy would reopen in Havana before the summit, but Cuban officials have said they can not imagine a full restoration of diplomatic ties until Cuba is removed from the U.S. State Department list of countries that support terrorism. ``It would be difficult to explain that diplomatic relations have been resumed while Cuba has been unjustly listed as a state sponsor of international terrorism,'' said Josefina Vidal, the general director of U.S. affairs at the Cuban Foreign Ministry and lead negotiator in the talks. Cuba was added to the list in 1982, which includes Syria, Iran and Sudan. The designation carries financial sanctions which Cuban officials say further damages their already ailing economy. The State Department has sent a recommendation to the White House that Cuba be removed, paving the way for the White House to announce its intent to de-list Cuba as early as this week, two administration officials told CNN. Removal from the list ``does not relate to whether or not we agree with everything a country does or whether we agree with its political system, or its foreign policy,'' Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes said on a conference call with reporters Tuesday. ``It's a very practical review as to whether or not a government is sponsoring terrorism.''. Rhodes also dialed backed rhetoric on Venezuela, saying the country did not pose a national security threat to the United States, despite a recent declaration to that effect. The designation was meant to allow officials to target seven allegedly corrupt Venezuelan officials, but it ignited a firestorm, particularly in Cuba, which has close ties to Venezuela. Deceased Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez was a friend and admirer of former Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Chavez's successor Nicolas Maduro continues to send Cuba tens of thousands of barrels of oil each day, despite his country's own economic turmoil. In exchange, Cuba sends doctors, military advisers and sports trainers to Venezuela. In Cuba's state-run media, criticism of U.S. policy towards Venezuela has overshadowed the improvement in U.S.-Cuba relations. In March, Fidel Castro published a letter criticizing the U.S.' ``brutal plans towards'' Venezuela and the Cuban government promised ``unconditional aid'' to help defend against American threats. Its remains to be seen how much Cuba will risk its warming relations with the United States to back up ally Venezuela. But apparently there is little doubt among the Cuban people on what their government should do. A poll of 1,200 Cubans released on Wednesday found that 97 % of the people surveyed by Miami-based polling firm Bendixen & Amandi on behalf of The Washington Post and Univision Noticias/Fusion supported improved U.S.-Cuban relations.
Irbil, Iraq ( CNN ) ISIS claimed it controlled part of Iraq's largest oil refinery Sunday, posting images online that purported to show the storming of the facility, fierce clashes and plumes of smoke rising above the contested site. The group said it launched an assault on the Baiji oil refinery late Saturday. By Sunday, ISIS said its fighters were inside the refinery and controlled several buildings, but Iraqi government security officials denied that claim and insisted Iraqi forces remain in full control. CNN couldn't independently verify ISIS' claim. It wouldn't be the first time that militants and Iraqi forces have battled over the refinery, a key strategic resource that has long been a lucrative target because the facility refines much of the fuel used by Iraqis domestically. If an attack damaged oil fields or machinery, it could have a significant impact. The refinery is just 40 kilometers ( 25 miles ) from the northern Iraqi city of Tikrit, which Iraqi forces and Shiite militias wrested from ISIS less than two weeks ago. CNN's Jennifer Deaton and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Two Alabama college students are accused of gang raping a woman while on spring break at Florida's Panama City Beach. Ryan Calhoun and Delonte Martistee, students at Troy University, were arrested and charged with sexual battery by multiple perpetrators, according to a statement from the Bay County, Florida, Sheriff's Office. The Troy, Alabama, Police Department found video of what appeared to be a Panama City gang rape during the course of an investigation into an unrelated shooting. The video was turned over to the Bay County Sheriff's Office. The Bay County Sheriff's Office Criminal Investigations Division has identified the victim in the video but said state law prevents the office from releasing any information about her. She was a visitor in Panama City. ``We are not releasing her location or any additional information on victim to protect her from further trauma,'' said sheriff's spokesman Tommy Ford. After interviewing witnesses, Bay County investigators determined the alleged rape took place sometime from March 10, 2015, to March 12, 2015, behind Spinnaker Beach Club, a popular bar and dance club for spring breakers. A statement from Troy University confirmed the two men are current students. ``The students have been placed on temporary suspension from school per the university's standards of conduct and disciplinary procedures. Martistee, a member of the track and field team, has also been removed from the team.''. The investigation continues and more arrests are expected, the Bay County Sheriff's Office said. Calhoun and Martistee will have their first court appearance Saturday morning, a Bay County deputy said. CNN could not determine if the men have attorneys.
( CNN ) Getting caught napping on the job is never good. Getting caught napping on the job in the cargo hold of a plane takes it to a whole different level. Alaska Airlines Flight 448 was just barely on its way to Los Angeles from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on Monday afternoon when the pilot reported hearing unusual banging from the cargo hold. ``There could be a person in there so we're going to come back around,'' he told air traffic control. The banging in the cargo hold did come from a person and he turned out to be a ramp agent from Menzies Aviation, a contractor for Alaska Airlines that handles loading the luggage, the airline said. The man told authorities he had fallen asleep. It appears he was never in any danger. The cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled, the airline said. The plane was also only in the air for 14 minutes. The passengers knew something wasn't right, almost as soon as the plane took off. ``All of a sudden we heard all this pounding underneath the plane and we thought there was something wrong with the landing gear,'' Robert Higgins told CNN affiliate KABC. The pounding grew louder. ``At that point, we started hearing yelling, screams for help, very, very faint,'' Jamie Davis said. ``That's when we notified the flight attendant that there was somebody underneath us.''. As the banging continued, a federal air marshal sprang into action. ``At some point, the marshal kind of made himself known,'' said Troi Ge. ``He started banging back, and he yelled really loud and said, `We're getting ready to land, hold on to something.'''. The emergency landing spooked the folks aboard Flight 448. Affiliate KOMO spoke to Marty Collins, another one of the passengers. ``We just took off for L.A. regular and then.. about five minutes into the flight the captain came on and said we were going back and we'd land within five to seven minutes, and we did,'' Collins said. ``When we landed was when all the trucks and the police and the fire trucks surrounded the plane.''. ``I think it's scary and really unsafe, too,'' Chelsie Nieto told affiliate KCPQ. ``Because what if it's someone who could have been a terrorist ?''. The ramp agent appeared to be in OK after the ordeal. He was taken to an area hospital as a precaution, the airline said. He passed a drug test and was discharged. The employee started work at 5 a.m. and his shift was scheduled to end at 2:30 p.m., just before the flight departed. ``During a pre-departure huddle, the team lead noticed the employee was missing. The team lead called into the cargo hold for the employee and called and texted the employee's cell phone, but did not receive an answer. His co-workers believed he finished his shift and went home,'' the airline's blog said. Alaska Airlines said it's investigating. The man had been on a four-person team loading baggage onto the flight. All ramp employees have security badges, and undergo full criminal background checks before being hired, according to the airline. After the delay, the flight with 170 passengers and six crew members on board made it to Los Angeles early Monday evening. CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A hooded angel with black wings appeared on Tuesday near the spot where Walter Scott was shot and killed by a police officer in North Charleston, South Carolina, on Saturday. Since then, it's been taken up as an icon of the Black Lives Matter movement. When protesters held the winged figure at a Wednesday morning rally outside North Charleston's City Hall, the artwork was widely photographed. Creator Phillip Hyman grew up in the neighborhood where Scott, an unarmed black man, was shot in the back several times by a white police officer on Saturday. Hyman now lives in another part of the city and couldn't stop thinking about it. He woke up about 3 a.m. a couple of days after Scott was killed and began searching for materials. ``Art is really about that moment. I just couldn't take it any longer,'' he said. Hyman dug into the trash and found a piece of wood that was the perfect size. Then he picked up a can of black house paint and started making the reclaimed wood into a work of art. The 56-year-old said he crafted the artwork as a way of mourning with the family. ``That's who all this should really be about, not about the propaganda and making it your own story,'' said Hyman, who talks quickly and passionately about his subject material. ``Shooting him in the back and just the indignity of it all.''. The figure, painted black in mourning for the family, has wings because it's going to heaven, Hyman said. The man depicted in Hyman's piece is dressed in a hooded sweatsuit, though that's not what Scott was wearing when he was killed. Hyman said he prefers not to say too much about who the black angel figure is. People can look at the art and make their own interpretations, he said. ``It's a statement of where we are in America today. It's relevant in Charleston, Ferguson, Florida, anywhere now.''. After Hyman put the piece up on Tuesday near where Scott was killed, he got a call from a local protester with the Black Lives Matter movement, which has staged protests around the country in the wake of high-profile deaths at the hands of police. The group asked for permission to use his artwork in its demonstrations at the North Charleston City Hall. Hyman was happy to oblige. Each day, the protesters call Hyman and he either carries the angel-winged artwork to the protest, or the protesters come over to his home to pick it up. ``It's taken a life of its own, so I'm letting it do what it's supposed to do now,'' he said. Freelance photographer Joel Woodhall spotted the artwork and wondered where it came from. Woodhall, who lives in nearby Charleston, said the artwork made him feel sorrow for a life ended too soon. ``It was very emotionally moving. It's beautiful,'' he told CNN. This isn't the first time Hyman has used artwork to effect change : He restored a local theater to its former glory. He commemorated Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday by painting a mural in a bad neighborhood that needed light. Hyman's wife, Kay, says her husband always paints from the heart. ``To see this recognized, he just goes into tears because it's very special to him.''
( CNN ) After a Russian fighter jet intercepted a U.S. reconnaissance plane in an ``unsafe and unprofessional manner'' earlier this week, the United States is complaining to Moscow about the incident. On Tuesday, a U.S. RC-135U was flying over the Baltic Sea when it was intercepted by a Russian SU-27 Flanker. The Pentagon said the incident occurred in international airspace north of Poland. The U.S. crew believed the Russian pilot's actions were ``unsafe and unprofessional due to the aggressive maneuvers it performed in close proximity to their aircraft and its high rate of speed,'' Pentagon spokesman Mark Wright said. Russian state news agency Sputnik reported the U.S. plane was flying toward the Russian border with its transponder switched off, according to a Defense Ministry spokesman. Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said the Russian jet flew around the U.S. plane several times to identify it and get its tail number. An official with the U.S. European Command said the claim that the transponder was off was false. Wright said the Pentagon and State Department will ``file the appropriate petition through diplomatic channels'' with Russia. This is not the first time the U.S. has complained about an incident involving a RC-135U and a SU-27. A year ago, a Russian jet flew within 100 feet of a RC-135U over the Sea of Okhotsk in the western Pacific, according to U.S. officials who called it ``one of the most dangerous close passes in decades.'' The Pentagon complained to the Russia military about that incident. Russian and U.S. aircraft often encounter each other, both in Northern Europe as well as the area between the Russian Far East and Alaska. CNN's Steve Brusk and Jamie Crawford contributed to this report.
( CNN ) For more than four days, police say, a 21-year-old quadriplegic with cerebral palsy was left lying in the woods of Philadelphia's Cobbs Creek Park with only a blanket and a Bible. The person responsible is the man's mother, who on Sunday faced a host of charges after allegedly abandoning her son and catching a bus to Maryland to see her boyfriend, said Philadelphia police Lt. John Walker. Low temperatures reached the mid-30s during the week, and rain was reported in the area Wednesday and Thursday. The man is unable to communicate how he came to be in the park, but Walker told reporters that the man's mother, whom he did not identify for CNN, left him there Monday morning. ``Sometime at 11 a.m., the mother went to visit her boyfriend down in Maryland, over in Montgomery County, and we believe she placed the child into Cobbs Creeks Park,'' Walker said at a news conference. Walker told CNN the man was transported to Presbyterian Hospital, but CNN affiliates reported he was being treated at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. He suffered eye problems, dehydration, malnutrition and a cut to the back that has raised infection concerns, the lieutenant told reporters. ``This kid's obviously a fighter,'' Walker said during a Saturday news conference. ``It's just unbelievable how we found him out there last night. To see that kid laying there, it's heartbreaking to see another human, especially a mother, can treat someone like that.''. Officials at Philadelphia's School of the Future, which the man attends, became concerned when he didn't show up for classes and tried to contact his mother but eventually reached an aunt, CNN affiliate WPVI reported. When police tracked down the mother, she told them her son was with her, Walker said. ``She indicated to both family members and the police officers that the child was with her down with her boyfriend in Maryland,'' he said. The boyfriend was not aware of what happened, Walker told CNN affiliate KYW-TV. The mother now stands charged with aggravated assault, simple assault, reckless endangerment of another person, neglect of a care-dependent person, unlawful restraint, kidnapping and false imprisonment, the station reported. Walker told reporters she bore ``clear criminal liability in this case.'' Maryland police took her into custody on Sunday, and she will face the charges in Philadelphia following an extradition hearing, WPVI reported. There was no reason for the man to suffer, Walker told philly.com, because the mother had sisters willing to take care of him. Two of his aunts, who have tried to obtain guardianship of him, were staying with him at the hospital, police told the website. The mother has another child, a 16-year-old, who is also being taken care of by family members, WPVI reported. The mother's arrest was only the beginning of the investigation, Walker told reporters. Authorities are interested in learning more about ``how this kid was cared for, and what actions were taken and providing of services by different agencies.''. CNN's Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) President Barack Obama says he is ``absolutely committed to making sure'' Israel maintains a military advantage over Iran. His comments to The New York Times, published on Sunday, come amid criticism from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of the deal that the United States and five other world powers struck with Iran. Tehran agreed to halt the country's nuclear ambitions, and in exchange, Western powers would drop sanctions that have hurt the Iran's economy. Obama said he understands and respects Netanyahu's stance that Israel is particularly vulnerable and doesn't ``have the luxury of testing these propositions'' in the deal. ``But what I would say to them is that not only am I absolutely committed to making sure they maintain their qualitative military edge, and that they can deter any potential future attacks, but what I'm willing to do is to make the kinds of commitments that would give everybody in the neighborhood, including Iran, a clarity that if Israel were to be attacked by any state, that we would stand by them,'' Obama said. That, he said, should be ``sufficient to take advantage of this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see whether or not we can at least take the nuclear issue off the table,'' he said. The framework negotiators announced last week would see Iran reduce its centrifuges from 19,000 to 5,060, limit the extent to which uranium necessary for nuclear weapons can be enriched and increase inspections. The talks over a final draft are scheduled to continue until June 30. But Netanyahu and Republican critics in Congress have complained that Iran won't have to shut down its nuclear facilities and that the country's leadership isn't trustworthy enough for the inspections to be as valuable as Obama says they are. Obama said even if Iran can't be trusted, there's still a case to be made for the deal. ``In fact, you could argue that if they are implacably opposed to us, all the more reason for us to want to have a deal in which we know what they're doing and that, for a long period of time, we can prevent them from having a nuclear weapon,'' Obama said.
( CNN ) One year after it was perpetrated, the kidnapping of nearly 300 schoolgirls by a jihadist group in Nigeria remains a crime almost too horrifying to comprehend : Hundreds of teenaged girls, just finishing school, destined perhaps for significant achievement -- kidnapped, never to be seen again. ``This crime has rightly caused outrage both in Nigeria and across the world,'' the country's President-elect, Muhammadu Buhari, said Tuesday in marking the anniversary. ``Today is a time to reflect on the pain and suffering of the victims, their friends and families. Our thoughts and prayers, and that of the whole Nigerian nation, are with you today.''. The girls were abducted on the night of April 14-15, 2014, in the town of Chibok, in northeastern Nigeria, about a two-hour drive from the border with Cameroon. The Government Girls Secondary School had been closed for a month because of the danger posed by Boko Haram militants, who are opposed to Western education, particularly for girls. But students from several schools had been called in to take a final exam in physics. The militants stormed the school, arriving in a convoy of trucks and buses and engaging in a gun battle with school security guards. Then they forced the girls from their dormitories, loaded them into trucks and drove them into the forest. Most have never been seen since, except in a photograph in which they sat on the ground in a semi-circle, clad in Islamic dress. They were between 16 and 18 years old. Police said the militants kidnapped 276 girls in all. About 50 managed to escape soon after they were abducted. Those who did not, it is feared, may have been raped, brutalized, enslaved and forced to convert to Islam. Their parents were stricken with grief. The world was appalled. On Twitter, a hashtag began trending and spread around the world : #BringBackOurGirls. On Tuesday, Malala Yousafzai, the 17-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot in the face for speaking out in favor of girls' education, sent a message to the kidnapped girls. ``I am one of the millions of people around the world who keep you and your families foremost in our thoughts and prayers,'' she wrote. ``We can not imagine the full extent of the horrors you have endured. But please know this : We will never forget you.''. One year later, a few things have changed. Each of the missing girls has had a birthday in captivity. Each is now a year older. Nigeria's current president, Goodluck Jonathan, was defeated in his campaign for re-election, in part, it is thought, because he failed to effectively combat Boko Haram. Buhari, the incoming president, has pledged an aggressive effort to wipe out the group. But much remains unchanged, as well. Boko Haram still controls swathes of northeastern Nigeria. According to UNICEF, 800,000 children have been forced to flee their homes because of the conflict between the Nigerian military, civilian self-defense groups, and Boko Haram. Amnesty International says women and children continue to be abducted. And it says Boko Haram continues to kill in large numbers. Beyond that, more than 200 schoolgirls who had gathered one year ago to take their science exam are still missing. Their families are still bereft. And Tuesday on Twitter, a hashtag was still trending : #BringBackOurGirls.
( CNN ) Police added attempted murder to the list of charges against the mother of a quadriplegic man who was left in the woods for days, Philadelphia police spokeswoman Christine O'Brien said Tuesday. Nyia Parler can not be extradited to face the charges in Philadelphia until she completes an unspecified ``treatment,'' Maryland police said Monday. When she does arrive, she will be charged with aggravated assault, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and related offenses, in addition to the attempted murder count, O'Brien said. The Montgomery County ( Maryland ) Department of Police took Parler, 41, into custody Sunday after Philadelphia police reported that she left her 21-year-old son in the woods while she hopped a bus to see her boyfriend in Maryland. A man walking through the woods found him Friday ``lying in leaves, covered in a blanket with a Bible and a wheelchair nearby,'' Philadelphia police say. Citing federal health care privacy laws, Montgomery County police spokesman Capt. Paul Starks said he could not divulge why Parler was receiving treatment, but he said she had to complete it before she could be extradited. She remained in treatment as of Tuesday morning, Starks told CNN. If she chooses not to challenge her extradition, she will be transported to Philadelphia once the treatment is complete, he said. For more than four days, police say, the quadriplegic man, who also suffers from cerebral palsy, was left lying in the woods of Philadelphia's Cobbs Creek Park. Low temperatures reached the mid-30s during the week, and rain was reported in the area Wednesday and Thursday. The man is unable to communicate how he came to be in the park, but Philadelphia police Lt. John Walker told reporters that the man's mother left him there the morning of April 6. Starks identified the mother as Parler on Monday. ``The mother went to visit her boyfriend down in Maryland, over in Montgomery County, and we believe she placed the child into Cobbs Creeks Park,'' Walker said at a news conference. Walker told CNN the man was transported to Presbyterian Hospital, but CNN affiliates reported he was being treated at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. He suffered eye problems, dehydration, malnutrition and a cut to his back that raised infection concerns, the lieutenant told reporters. ``This kid's obviously a fighter,'' Walker said during a Saturday news conference. ``It's just unbelievable how we found him out there last night. To see that kid laying there, it's heartbreaking to see another human, especially a mother, can treat someone like that.''. Officials at Philadelphia's School of the Future, which the man attends, became concerned when he didn't show up for classes last week and tried to contact his mother but eventually reached an aunt, Philadelphia police said. ``The aunt was in contact via text message with Nyia throughout the week and when she expressed her concerns about the complainant, Nyia replied, `We're OK,' which the aunt believed meant that the victim was with Nyia in Maryland,'' according to a police news release. When police tracked down the mother, she told them her son was with her, Walker said. ``She indicated to both family members and the police officers that the child was with her down with her boyfriend in Maryland,'' he said. The boyfriend was not aware of what happened, Walker told CNN affiliate KYW-TV. Walker told reporters she bore ``clear criminal liability in this case.''. There was no reason for the man to suffer, Walker told philly.com, because the mother had sisters willing to take care of him. Two of his aunts, who have tried to obtain guardianship of him, were staying with him at the hospital, police told the website. Parler's sister told police that Parler has another child, a 16-year-old. The mother's arrest was only the beginning of the investigation, Walker told reporters. Authorities are interested in learning more about ``how this kid was cared for, and what actions were taken and providing of services by different agencies.''. CNN's Chuck Johnston and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A new Kansas law banning a common second-term abortion procedure is the first of its kind in the United States. The law, signed by Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback on Tuesday, bans what it describes as ``dismemberment abortion'' and defines as ``knowingly dismembering a living unborn child and extracting such unborn child one piece at a time from the uterus.''. Supporters of the measure described it as a groundbreaking step, while opponents warned it was dangerous and among the most restrictive abortion laws in the country. The law does not spell out a specific time frame that limits when an abortion can occur, but it bans the dilation and evacuation abortion procedure commonly used during the second trimester of pregnancy. The law allows for the procedure if ``necessary to protect the life or health of the mother,'' according to a statement on Brownback's website. On Twitter, Brownback, a Republican, said he was proud to sign a law ``protecting life at its most vulnerable stage.''. Planned Parenthood Advocates of Kansas and Mid-Missouri sharply criticized the move, which it described as the latest in a series of ``extreme political measures aimed at denying women access to health care and at undermining their decision-making ability.''. ``Kansas is now not only the sole state with this atrocious law ; it also now has more restrictions on abortion than any state in the U.S.,'' the advocacy group said in a Facebook post. Both sides appear to be prepared to take their battle over such measures to other states -- and to court. Carol Tobias, the president of National Right to Life, said in a statement that the Kansas law was the first of what her organization hopes ``will be many state laws.''. ``This law has the power to transform the landscape of abortion policy in the United States,'' she said. Julie Burkhart, CEO of Wichita-based South Wind Women's Center, said on Twitter that the signing of the law marked a sad day for Kansas and the United States. ``This law puts women at risk and ties doctors' hands,'' she said. ``We'll continue to fight !''. CNN's Sam Stringer contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The mother of a quadriplegic man who police say was left in the woods for days can not be extradited to face charges in Philadelphia until she completes an unspecified ``treatment,'' Maryland police said Monday. The Montgomery County ( Maryland ) Department of Police took Nyia Parler, 41, into custody Sunday after Philadelphia police reported that she left her 21-year-old son in the woods while she hopped a bus to see her boyfriend in Maryland. A man walking through the woods found him Friday ``lying in leaves, covered in a blanket with a Bible and a wheelchair nearby,'' Philadelphia police say. Citing federal health care privacy laws, Montgomery County police spokesman Capt. Paul Starks said he could not divulge why Parler was receiving treatment, but he said she had to complete it before she could be extradited. She remained in treatment as of Tuesday morning, Starks told CNN. If she chooses not to challenge her extradition, she will be transported to Philadelphia once the treatment is complete, he said. For more than four days, police say, the quadriplegic man, who also suffers from cerebral palsy, was left lying in the woods of Philadelphia's Cobbs Creek Park. Low temperatures reached the mid-30s during the week, and rain was reported in the area Wednesday and Thursday. The man is unable to communicate how he came to be in the park, but Philadelphia police Lt. John Walker told reporters that the man's mother left him there the morning of April 6. Starks identified the mother as Parler on Monday. ``The mother went to visit her boyfriend down in Maryland, over in Montgomery County, and we believe she placed the child into Cobbs Creeks Park,'' Walker said at a news conference. Walker told CNN the man was transported to Presbyterian Hospital, but CNN affiliates reported he was being treated at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. He suffered eye problems, dehydration, malnutrition and a cut to his back that raised infection concerns, the lieutenant told reporters. ``This kid's obviously a fighter,'' Walker said during a Saturday news conference. ``It's just unbelievable how we found him out there last night. To see that kid laying there, it's heartbreaking to see another human, especially a mother, can treat someone like that.''. Officials at Philadelphia's School of the Future, which the man attends, became concerned when he didn't show up for classes last week and tried to contact his mother but eventually reached an aunt, Philadelphia police said. ``The aunt was in contact via text message with Nyia throughout the week and when she expressed her concerns about the complainant, Nyia replied, `We're OK,' which the aunt believed meant that the victim was with Nyia in Maryland,'' according to a police news release. When police tracked down the mother, she told them her son was with her, Walker said. ``She indicated to both family members and the police officers that the child was with her down with her boyfriend in Maryland,'' he said. The boyfriend was not aware of what happened, Walker told CNN affiliate KYW-TV. When she arrives in Philadelphia, the mother will stand charged with aggravated assault, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and related offenses, a Philadelphia police spokeswoman said. Walker told reporters she bore ``clear criminal liability in this case.''. There was no reason for the man to suffer, Walker told philly.com, because the mother had sisters willing to take care of him. Two of his aunts, who have tried to obtain guardianship of him, were staying with him at the hospital, police told the website. Parler's sister told police that Parler has another child, a 16-year-old. The mother's arrest was only the beginning of the investigation, Walker told reporters. Authorities are interested in learning more about ``how this kid was cared for, and what actions were taken and providing of services by different agencies.''. CNN's Chuck Johnston and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) What would you do if a complete stranger asked you for $ 100, or offered you an apple in a parking lot without explanation ?. These are only two of the 100 challenges Chinese-born, American-based Jia Jiang put himself up to when he decided to blog about ``100 Days of Rejection'', a project he launched after he quit his comfortable six-figure job to follow his dreams of being an entrepreneur at the age of 30, just weeks before his first child was born. After his tech start-up was declined investment, Jiang decided to confront his fear of rejection head-on. This led to his writing his book called Rejection Proof, part self-help and part motivational/autobiography, which is being released this week. Famously, in 2012 on his third day of the project, Jiang asked Austin, Texas, Krispy Kreme manager ( Jackie Braun ) to make him five interlinked donuts to mimic the Olympic symbol. To his surprise, she rose to the challenge and his rejection request faltered. He shared his video and it went viral on Reddit. Before long, Jiang ( and Braun ) were invited on talk shows and Jiang was being asked to speak at events across the US. Jiang was even offered jobs as his project continued and his fame grew. That wasn't the goal of the project though. ``I'm really just a person trying to overcome my own fears,'' explained Jiang. The project started out to help ``fix my own problems, and now I'm helping others fix theirs,'' he said. ``The fear of rejection really holds people back. I'm trying to demystify the idea of rejection.''. Jiang, who as a child dreamed of being Bill Gates and has been viewed 7 million times on YouTube, has found his entrepreneurial dream in a different role for the moment. ``My goal is to turn rejection into opportunity. I always thought it was something to run away from, but if we can embrace it, we can turn it into a lot more than an obstacle.''. 8 top tips in making rejection work for you :. 1 - The fear of rejection holds us back a lot more than actual rejection. By putting ourselves out there, the world will usually open itself up to you. Though the world can seem cruel and cold, actually humans have a hard time saying no. So open yourself up, don't be afraid to ask for something. If you fail, remember it's not about you. 2 - Rejection is more or less a numbers game. Sometimes the most far-fetched idea gets a yes. If you talk to enough people, somebody will say yes to you. J.K. Rowling went through 12 rejections to get her yes for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. 3 - You can not use rejection to measure the merit of an idea. Sometimes if you really want to change the world, getting rejection is a must. Rejection is a human interaction with two sides. It often says more about the rejector than the rejectee, and should never be used as the universal truth and sole judgment of merit. 4 - Don't run away after a no. The most common thing we do when we're rejected is we want to run because rejection is painful - you're hurt, angry and you lose confidence. But actually if we know how to handle it, we can often minimize the chance of rejection. Be confident, engaging, collaborate. I used all of these traits to maximise getting a yes. 5 - Ask why ? When you get rejected you have to find out why. Then spend time to find solutions to solve that why. Sometimes through this process you learn there is something else you can ask for. Ask for an intermediate position rather than the top position. 6 - Set a number of how many no's you can take. In his book, Jiang helps his wife set out to get her dream job at Google. He tells her that instead of thinking about getting a job, she needs to prepare herself for how many no's she can take. In the end, she was offered a job at Google. 7 - Be invincible. By the end of his project, Jiang said he felt he could ask anything from anyone and not have the pain of rejection. It was a gradual process - gradually my comfort zone expanded. It's like a muscle, I could become stronger and stronger. 8 - Stand tall and remember rejection is an opinion. People are who they are. A lot of people will reject you because of their mood, their education, their upbringing, and you can't change who they are. But you can stand confidently. Innate confidence comes across. How missing sleep can damage your IQ. The surprising benefits of doing nothing. 7 habits of highly ineffective people.
( CNN ) Over the last year more than 25,000 people, a population about the size of Key West, Florida, have fought Ebola infections. More than 10,000 have not survived. But for those who have survived, life will never be the same. And even for those who did not experience Ebola personally, the ``most severe public health emergency seen in modern times'' showed the world its vulnerability to disease. It revealed real flaws in government systems that are supposed to protect us. While the intensity of the largest Ebola epidemic in history has died down, and the initial dire predictions that there would be over a million infections by January never came true, dozens are still newly infected each week. The latest World Health Organization Report confirmed a total of 30 new confirmed cases of Ebola were reported in the week of April 5. This is the lowest weekly total since May 2014. But reports are mixed on stopping the virus completely : In Liberia and Sierra Leone, the number of cases has fallen so much, there are more treatment facilities than demand. WHO in Liberia is in the process of decommissioning surplus facilities. But in Guinea, of the 19 confirmed deaths from April 5, seven were only identified as Ebola post-mortem and there were reports of 21 unsafe burials. ``Taken together these data indicate that though surveillance is improving, unknown chains of transmission could be a source of new infections in the coming weeks,'' the latest WHO report said. Click on the photos above to learn how a grave digger, a first responder, and many others have changed in the wake of Ebola.
( CNN ) The first daughter to be married from the hit reality show ``19 Kids and Counting'' has also become the first mother. People magazine reports that Jill ( Duggar ) Dillard gave birth Monday to a 9-pound, 10-ounce son she and husband Derick have named Israel David. Jill's parents, Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar, posted a video of the new family on their official Facebook page. The baby was a bit tardy, going past his due date by more than a week. Dillard, who is a student midwife, said she gave herself two due dates and was prepared for the wait. ``I have told myself, `First-time moms often go a week and a half over, so don't get discouraged,''' she told People. ``When everyone else is asking you, `When are you going to have that baby ?' The baby will come when the baby comes.''. Dillard has a ways to go to catch up with her mother. Her super-sized family and their lives have been well-documented on their TLC series, including Jill and Derick's wedding on June 21. Eldest Duggar son Josh is already the father of three children, and his wife, Anna, is expecting their fourth in July.
( CNN ) It was like a scene out of ``Make Way for Ducklings'' on Tuesday on a rainy street in Washington. CNN Situation Room correspondent Brian Todd and photojournalist Khalil Abdallah were on their way to interview a legal analyst on L Street NW when they happened on a brood of baby ducks causing a stir. Abdallah reports the ducklings and their mom had crossed heavily trafficked street, and some restaurant patrons stopped on the sidewalk to corral them. A man gave up his umbrella for the cause ``while the mom was going crazy.''. ``One duckling tried to run back to the street but they caught it in time,'' Abdallah said. The mother duck followed the umbrella while pedestrians stopped cars on L street for them to safely cross the road. The Washington Post reports the pedestrians took the bird family to ``a more enclosed grassy area'' at 16th and L streets NW. ( Yes, baby ducks warrant two national news stories. ). ``We thought it was an extraordinary situation,'' Todd said. ``You see pigeons, you see squirrels, you see the occasional raccoon in the D.C. area, and.. you see deer.. We've never seen anything like this in the middle of town.''
( CNN ) The killing of an employee at Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina, may have been a hate crime, authorities said Tuesday. Investigators are looking into the possibility, said Goldsboro police Sgt. Jeremy Sutton. He did not explain what may have made it a hate crime. The victim -- Ron Lane, whom officials said was a longtime employee and the school's print shop operator -- was white, as is the suspect. Lane's relatives said he was gay, CNN affiliate WNCN reported. The suspect, Kenneth Morgan Stancil III, worked with Lane as part of a work-study program, but was let go from the program in early March due to poor attendance, college President Kay Albertson said Tuesday. On Monday, Stancil walked into the print shop on the third floor of a campus building, aimed a pistol-grip shotgun and fired once, killing Lane, according to Sutton. Stancil has tattoos on his face. Sutton said investigators are looking into whether he is part of a white supremacist gang. He has no previous criminal record, authorities said. Sutton said Stancil fled on a motorcycle after the shooting and ultimately abandoned it in a highway median. Then, Stancil continued on to Daytona, Florida, but authorities don't know how he traveled, Sutton said. He was arrested just after 1 a.m. Tuesday, after he was found sleeping on a beach, about 550 miles ( 885 kilometers ) from Goldsboro. Volusia County Beach Patrol had approached him for violating the city's ordinance against sleeping on the beach. He had a knife, police said. He was taken into custody without incident. Authorities in North Carolina expect to bring him back to face charges. Wayne Community College, a two-year school, has a student population of 3,837, according 2013 figures from the National Center for Education Statistics. Slightly more than half the students are part-time. Crime statistics from the center's website show no killings, assaults, robberies or motor vehicle thefts between 2011 and 2013. There were three arrests for illegal weapons possession in 2012 and three in 2013.
( CNN ) Former Australia cricket captain and legendary broadcaster Richie Benaud has died at the age of 84. Benaud, whose witty one-liners from the commentary box resonated far beyond Australia's shores, said last year he was being treated for skin cancer. ``After Don Bradman, there has been no Australian player more famous than Richie Benaud,'' Cricket Australia said on its website. ``Benaud stood at the top of the game throughout his rich life, first as a record-breaking leg-spinner and captain, and then as cricket's most famous -- and most impersonated -- broadcaster.''. A veteran of 64 Test matches, Benaud was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1985. While many regarded his voice as the soundtrack to an Australian summer, Benaud was equally revered by the cricketing public on the other side of the world where he spent more than four decades with the BBC taking the game into millions of British living rooms. But whether you were sitting in Sydney or in South London, there were plenty of ``marvelous'' Richie moments from the box to savor :. ``And Glenn McGrath dismissed for two, just ninety-eight runs short of his century.''. ``From our broadcasting box you can't see any grass at all. It is simply a carpet of humanity.''. ``Captaincy is 90 % luck and 10 % skill. But don't try it without that 10 %.''. News of his passing quickly generated a wave of condolences, including from Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott. ``To most Australians Richie Benaud was cricket. He personified its traditions and its values,'' Abbott said in a written statement Friday. ``While many Australians only know Richard Benaud as the voice of cricket, we should not forget that in his day he was a cricketer with few equals. It was why he was so insightful as a commentator. ``As a player his record has withstood the test of time. He led the Australian side from 1958/59 through to 1963/1964, never losing a series in his 28 Tests as captain. ``As captain, he was first to lead a full Australian tour to India and Pakistan in 1959/60. He was the first cricketer to reach a Test double of 2,000 runs and 200 wickets. ``Given the special place Richie Benaud has in our national life, I have asked that on the day of his funeral flags fly at half-mast. I extend my condolences and the condolences of the Australian people, to his wife Daphne and his family and friends. Current Australian captain Michael Clarke posted an image of Benaud on Instagram with the message : ``What a man. Extremely sad day. You were a lot more then just a cricketer Richie. RIP.''. Clarke's former teammate Shane Warne also took to Instagram to post a touching letter to the late commentator. He wrote : ``Dear Richie, I've known you & Daphne for close to 30 years & to everyone you were a legend on all levels & rightly so too. ``As a cricketer, commentator & as a person, you were the best there's ever been & to top it off, an absolute gentleman.. For me it was an honour & a privilege to call you a close friend & mentor, we had so many wonderful times together, talking cricket & in particular, our love & passion of leg spin bowling. ``I will cherish our entertaining dinners & all the fun times we shared over a long period of time. I would also like to thank you & Daphne for all your support & time you made for me as a young cricketer & leg spin bowler trying to make his way as an 18 year old, your tips & advice along the journey meant so much !!!. ``Richie, you were loved by everyone, not just the cricket family, you were the godfather of cricket & you will be missed by all.. R.I.P my friend.''. Benaud, who was born in 1930 in Penrith, New South Wales, lead Australia into an era of world dominance as a player. But it was after he hung up his spikes that his legendary status was confirmed. Writing in a column in The Australian, cricket writer Gideon Haigh wrote ``television was Benaud's calling, suiting his captain's spontaneity and intuition. ``He was authoritative but not pedantic, dignified but not pompous, and never spoke unless he had something to say. He was so popular that many humorists strove to imitate him, so distinctive that none ever quite got him right.''. The BBC's cricket correspondent Jonathan Agnew agreed. ``He was quite simply peerless. Nobody else had his authority, popularity and skill,'' Agnew said in a column on the BBC website. ``If you speak to any broadcaster from any sport, they will point to Richie as the standard-bearer.''. Australian national team coach Darren Lehmann said Benaud set ``an incredibly high standard on and off the field.''. ``The fact that Australia never lost a series under his captaincy says so much and those standards were just as high when he turned his attention to calling the game,'' he told cricket.com.au. ``We loved listening to him commentate when the team was together in the dressing room. When he was on air, we always had the TV volume turned up because his comments were so insightful.''. Benaud's passing also drew messages of sympathy on social media from beyond his native Australia. Imran Khan, the former captain of Pakistan and now a leading politician there, tweeted : ``Saddened by the death of Richie Benaud, one of the greatest cricketing brains.''. While Kumar Sangakkara, the current captain of Sri Lanka's Test team, posted : ``So sad to hear about the passing of Richie Benaud. The great voice of cricket is no more. He defined an era with conviction and sincerity.''. British Prime Minister David Cameron tweeted : ``I grew up listening to Richie Benaud's wonderful cricket commentary. Like all fans of the sport, I will miss him very much.''. CNN's Pierre Meilhan and Azadeh Ansari contributed to this report.
( CNN ) There's an old saying which states the Cape Verde Islands are home to a greater number of musicians per square kilometer than any other country in the world. In truth, such a definitive claim may be nigh on impossible to prove. But there is a certain factual accuracy behind the legend : the important and proud relationship the Atlantic island country of just 500,000 people has with music. Situated roughly 350 miles off the west coast of Africa, Cape Verde has long been a mesh of cultures, history and races. The former Portuguese territory was once a key location for the transatlantic slave trade, a target for 16th century pirates and a refuge for exiled Jews. From this diverse melting pot were born the unique sounds of the batuque, morna, funana and other distinct musical styles. Now, Cape Verde is seeking to tap-into the spoils of this rich cultural heritage in a bid to help its economy flourish. Bereft of oil, gas, gold, diamonds or the conventional natural resources that have fueled growth in many other African countries, Cape Verde has had to look for alternative sectors to aid its development. And what's more alternative than a jiving, swinging, musical economy ?. ``Besides fish, it is pretty common ( for Cape Verde ) to say `our biggest richness is in music and culture,''' said Christine Semba of Womex, an international networking platform for the world music genre. The economic potential of music has been also acknowledged by Cape Verde's prime minister, Jose Maria Neves, while the country's ministry of culture is run by Mario Lucio de Sousa, himself a popular musician. ``The future of our country lies in our capacity to create, our capacity to innovate,'' Neves said in reference to the music and the arts at a World Trade Organization conference in 2013. Other elements of the creative economy include handicrafts, fashion and visual arts to name but a few. However, a 2013 report from the UN Conference on Trade and Development noted that Cape Verde's creative sector remained a relatively small part of its economy with much room for improvement and long term planning. But that doesn't mean there hasn't been some promising early signs that music has the potential to play a key role in the future. One early musical success has been the Kriol Jazz Festival. The event, which is celebrating its seventh edition, took place in the capital city of Praia this past weekend. Artists including Grammy-winning U.S. singer Esperanza Spalding have been invited to perform, as have acts from the likes of Luxembourg, Brazil and, of course, Cape Verde. According to Harold Taveres, a liaison to the mayor of Praia involved with promoting the festival, ``KJF has become one of the most spectacular events in Cape Verde. ``We breathe the music in Cape Verde, we live with the music,'' he added. ``Now the festival has brought people from every corner in the world ( to share in this ).''. During the festival, bars, hotels and restaurants are full to the brim while taxi drivers are seldom unable to find a fare during what locals refer to as ``the week of party.''. It's a lucrative trade, for sure. Yet in order to take full advantage of this bustling scene the country's ministry of culture, alongside some enterprising private sector figures, thought a deeper relationship with the music business was required. Enter the Atlantic Music Expo, a three-year-old conference and networking event that seeks to help Cape Verdean artists secure international exposure. This year's AME took place in the days before the Kriol Jazz Festival. Delegates, local musicians and their management teams were exposed to roundtables, workshops and talks on the intricacies of the global music business. ``We try to invite lots of producers and a lot of journalists from around the world to see the festival and the musicians from Cape Verde,'' said Jose Da Silva, long time manager of the late Cape Verdean songstress Cesaria Evora. Da Silva is one of the driving forces behind AME as well as being the founder of the Lusafrica and Harmonia record labels that aim to discover a new generation of artists from Cape Verde. He hopes that by exposing musicians to a range of experienced industry professionals and top-level musicians, they will become equipped with the tools and ambition to take the music of Cape Verde across the globe. Not only will this help launch the careers of artists and musicians ( with all the respective behind the scenes business structures such developments require ) but it will garner valuable attention for the country. This is where the greatest potential economic benefits lie. Tourism is expected to account for 20 % of the country's GDP by 2024, according to research from the World Travel and Tourism Council. Getting Cape Verde's name out on the world stage through recognition of its rich musical culture is therefore increasingly important. ``Economically it's beneficial for the country because the money we would have to spend on the market to give the country this exposure in the world would be too big,'' Da Silva said. ``This way it costs less money.''. Semba agrees with this, and highlights the joined up thinking of the government and private sector actors like Da Silva for special praise. ``In the long term, the whole country is behind this event,'' Semba said, adding ``this is a very innovative approach which we would like to see in many more countries.''. It must be noted, however, that few countries have the same natural resources for music as Cape Verde. More from Marketplace Africa.
( CNN ) Desperate migrants from Africa and the Middle East keep heading to Europe, with 978 rescued Friday in the Mediterranean Sea, the Italian Coast Guard said Saturday via Twitter. The migrants were picked up 30 miles off the coast of Libya, said European Parliament member Matteo Salvini, the leader of Italy's far-right Northern League. In the first three months of 2015, Italy registered more than 10,000 migrants arriving, the International Organization for Migration said, and about 2,000 were rescued at sea during the first weekend of April in the Channel of Sicily. Most migrants recorded this year come from countries in West Africa as well as Somalia and Syria, the IMO said. They use Libya as a country of transit. At least 480 migrants have died while crossing the Mediterranean since the beginning of the year, often because of bad weather and overcrowded vessels used by smugglers, the IMO said. Sometimes the captains and crews abandon the ships, leaving passengers to fend for themselves. At this time last year, there were fewer than 50 deaths reported, the IMO said. Most of the migrants are asylum seekers, victims of trafficking or violence, unaccompanied children and pregnant women.
( CNN ) ``Hamlet.'' ``Romeo and Juliet.'' ``A Midsummer Night's Dream.''. For centuries, these plays and three dozen more by William Shakespeare have formed history's most heralded literary canon. But now they may have to make room for an addition to Shakespeare's famous oeuvre. New research indicates that ``Double Falsehood,'' a play first published in 1728 by Lewis Theobald, was actually written more than a century earlier by Shakespeare himself with help from his friend John Fletcher. The findings were published this week by two scholars who used computer software to analyze the writings of the three men and compare it with the language of the ``newer'' play. ``The match between the `Double Falsehood' play and Shakespeare was a landslide. It was shockingly clear,'' said Ryan L. Boyd, a researcher at the University of Texas at Austin. The study, co-authored by Boyd and UT colleague James W. Pennebaker, was published in the journal Psychological Science. ``There's very little wiggle room to interpret the numbers any differently.''. Boyd said he and Pennebaker analyzed 33 plays by Shakespeare, nine by Fletcher and 12 by Theobald to create a ``psychological signature'' of each author based on word choices, phrase patterns and other factors. They compared those profiles to the language in ``Double Falsehood'' and determined that the play's first half was almost entirely written by Shakespeare, though the second half appeared to be split evenly between Shakespeare and Fletcher. Only tiny traces of Theobald's signature were found. ``We're certainly not suggesting that Theobald didn't make edits,'' Boyd told CNN. ``But he clearly did not write it.''. ``Double Falsehood,'' also known as ``The Distressed Lovers,'' is based on the ``Cardenio'' section of Don Quixote, the classic 17th-century novel by Miguel de Cervantes. Set in Spain, the play revolves around the romantic entanglements of two brothers : one virtuous, one sinful. Theobald said he based the play on three original manuscripts he had discovered, all of them written by Shakespeare. But many scholars have long dismissed the play as a fake, suspecting that Theobald tried to pass the Bard's work off as his own. Shakespeare, who died in 1616, wrote most of his published plays between 1590 and 1612. British publishers Arden Shakespeare published ``Double Falsehood'' in 2010 -- for the first time in 250 years -- amid renewed claims by experts that it was Shakespeare's work. But the new study by Boyd and Pennebaker, the first to analyze the writings from a psychological perspective, may settle the matter once and for all. Shakespearean scholar Brean Hammond, professor of modern English literature at Nottingham University in the UK, praised the Texas study for its scientific approach. Hammond said Boyd and Pennebaker ``have got no dogs in the fight. They're not literary scholars, ( so ) their work could be seen as more objective than some of the literary studies.''. Hammond studied ``Double Falsehood's'' authorship from a literary perspective five years ago and found Shakespeare's DNA evident in the play. But he doubts the new research will put the matter entirely to rest. ``Those people who don't believe the play was written by Shakespeare aren't going to just lay down and die,'' he said.
Nairobi, Kenya ( CNN ) Kenya froze dozens of accounts linked to suspected terror supporters after militants massacred 147 people last week at a university in Garissa. The government is tracking the finances of people suspected of ties to Al-Shabaab, the militant group that claimed responsibility for the Thursday attack. So far, the government has frozen 86 accounts, but that number could go up, said Mwenda Njoka, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry. The government has tracked supporters of the terror group since 2011, and efforts to freeze their assets have gone on since then. It has a list of suspects from various parts of the country, but mostly in Nairobi and Mombasa, he said. Kenyans mourned the victims of the attack Tuesday night at Nairobi's Uhuru Park, where hundreds gathered. Organizers unloaded 147 crosses, some draped with the nation's flag, as candles flickered in the dark. Of the fatalities, 142 were students at the university, and the rest were security forces and campus security. ``I can't even look at pictures of the people killed without crying,'' said Mary Wambui, 32, who lives in Nakuru, hundreds of miles from Garissa. ``They were just children. They were trying to make a better life for themselves. Some were first to go to college in their communities. They died trying to get an education.''. Using the hashtag # 147notjustanumber, Kenyans used social media to talk about the lives of the victims. They shared pictures of beaming faces, full of life and energy, in happier days. They talked about parents too shocked to speak after identifying their children's bodies. Some students remain unaccounted for, and wailing relatives alternate their searches between hospitals and morgues. Kenyan authorities have not released the names of the victims. Kenyan authorities had prior intelligence that a university in Garissa could be attacked, yet the country's rapid response team was stuck in Nairobi for hours after the massacre awaiting transport, a police source said Monday. The frozen accounts is the latest in a series of actions as the government faced heavy criticism for the siege, which lasted hours. A spokesman for President Uhuru Kenyatta said authorities ``got the job done'' and saved lives. The university had about 800 students. ``With the benefit of hindsight, you can always say things could have been done better,'' Manoah Esipisu said. Kenya also launched airstrikes Monday targeting Al-Shabaab's training camps in Somalia, according to a military source, who said they were not retaliation for last week's massacre. ``The latest attack of Al-Shabaab bases by the Kenya military is part of the ongoing operations that started in 2011,'' the source said Monday. Kenya has also offered 20 million Kenyan shillings, or about $ 215,000, for information on the whereabouts of Mohamed Mohamud, who allegedly organized the attack. Mohamud is a senior Al-Shabaab leader known by the aliases Dulyadin and Gamadhere, authorities said. Al-Shabaab is based in Somalia, and its violence has spread to Kenya before. In 2013, militants attacked Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall, leaving 67 people dead. The terror group has intensified attacks in Kenya since the country sent troops to Somalia four years ago to help battle the militants. CNN's Joseph Netto reported from Nairobi, and Faith Karimi reported and wrote from Atlanta.
( CNN ) Irish betting company Paddy Power is backtracking after tweeting that ``Newcastle have suffered more Kop beatings over the last 20 years than an unarmed African-American male.''. The tweet, a pun on the name of the famous home end at Liverpool Football Club, alluded to recent controversial incidents in the United States in which unarmed African-American men have been killed by police. Paddy Power -- well-known for its use of publicity stunts -- used it to link to a piece showing statistics for games between Liverpool and Newcastle United ahead of their English Premier League match on Monday. A Paddy Power spokesman told CNN before Liverpool's 2-0 victory at Anfield : ``It was a joke, and no offense was meant.''. The tweet has since been deleted, but its removal -- along with the statement -- did little to placate social media users who condemned the organization, with some calling for the person who wrote the tweet to be sacked. In January, Paddy Power attracted headlines after backing David Ginola's failed candidacy for the presidency of world football's governing body. The former Paris Saint-Germain and Tottenham player could not persuade enough FIFA football associations to back his bid. He needed five to have any chance of unseating Sepp Blatter. Paddy Power started the funding for the candidacy, but its penchant for publicity stunts quickly led many people to dismiss Ginola's bid as another attempt to grab headlines. Paddy Power, the son of one the company's founders and its marketing spokesman, explained : ``We've been known for some mischievous activity around the world. This is not that. This is for real.''. Last year, the company generated anger when it promised ``money back if he walks'' in relation to the trial of disgraced South African Paralympian Oscar Pistorius. Monday's win put Liverpool fifth in the table, four points behind defending champion Manchester City, which holds England's final European Champions League qualification spot with six games left to play this season. Young England forward Raheem Sterling, who has turned down a new contract, scored a fine solo goal in the first half, and midfielder Joe Allen's 70th-minute strike condemned 13th-placed Newcastle to a fifth successive league defeat. Newcastle, which had France international midfielder Moussa Sissoko sent off in the 83rd minute, has not won at Anfield since a 1-0 victory in the League Cup in November 1995.
( CNN ) Malala Yousafzai's stellar career has included a Nobel Peace Prize. Last week, she made it into outer space. A NASA astrophysicist has named an asteroid after the teenage education activist from Pakistan, who was gravely wounded by a Pakistani Taliban gunman for promoting the right of girls' to go to school. It took a meticulous medical response to save her life more than two years ago. But Malala recovered with no serious neurological damage to become a powerhouse for her cause. After reading her story, scientist Amy Mainzer, who also consults for PBS on a children's educational science show, decided Malala deserved to be immortalized. So, she attached her name to the heavens. Thousands of asteroids swarm through the solar system mainly between Mars and Jupiter. Mainzer, working at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, discovered Asteroid 316201 in June 2010, which gave her the right to name it. ``My postdoctoral fellow Dr. Carrie Nugent brought to my attention the fact that although many asteroids have been named, very few have been named to honor the contributions of women ( and particularly women of color ),'' Mainzer wrote in a note to Malala. Mainzer gave it the name 316201 Malala, or 2010 ML48. Malala's asteroid circles the sun between Mars and Jupiter every five and half years, Mainzer said. ``It is about 4 kilometers in diameter, and its surface is very dark, the color of printer toner.''. As a scientist, her support for Malala's work is logical. When girls around the world also get educations, it increases human potential. ``We desperately need the brainpower of all smart people to solve some of humanity's most difficult problems, and we can't afford to reject half the population's,'' Mainzer wrote.
( CNN ) Last month Wu Rongrong was taken into custody for planning to protest on International Women's Day against sexual harassment in China. Since then, the Chinese authorities have formally detained her and four other activists for ``creating disturbances.'' They also briefly detained some of the activists' supporters, raided a prominent nongovernmental organization that called for their release, and have at points denied some of the women access to medical treatment, lawyers and adequate rest. The fate of the five will be revealed by April 13, as their case reaches the legal time limit when they must either be released or ``formally arrested,'' which almost always leads to conviction in China's legal system. The timing of the detentions of China's most inventive women's rights activists is ironic : Not only did they take place on the very day that marks women's achievements and their struggle for equality, but they also come in a year in which Beijing would have won praise for its role in promoting women's rights. It appears poised to adopt its first and long-awaited anti-domestic violence law, which is expected to get a reading before the National People's Congress Standing Committee this summer. This year also marks the 20th anniversary of the influential Fourth World Conference on Women hosted in Beijing, during which Hillary Clinton famously declared that ``women's rights are human rights.''. I first met Wu at a conference several years ago, at a time when there were very few women in China's weiquan or ``rights defense'' movement. It was common back then for male colleagues to publicly address them as ``babes'' or ``little sisters,'' even in professional -- and ostensibly progressive -- settings. As women's rights activists, Wu and others fight on two fronts : against overt rights violations by the Chinese government and against the wider gender norms that relegate women to second-class citizens. By the time we met again two years later, Wu and her young ``direct-action'' feminist colleagues were clearly off and running. They staged small, public ``performance art'' protests that attracted media headlines, energized the more mainstream and academically inclined women's rights movement, and pushed women's rights into the national consciousness and onto the government's agenda. Wu had an upbringing typical of her times. She comes from the countryside, which for many has changed beyond recognition within their lifetimes. In recent decades the economy has soared, but her generation is confronting the unhappy consequences of unchecked growth : pollution, unsafe foods and growing inequality between rich and poor. Like many parents, she worries about how to find untainted milk powder for her infant boy, and whether to keep her child with her in the city or to send him to his grandparents in the countryside for a quieter, safer upbringing. Many in Wu and her colleagues' generation are clear-eyed about the problems of China's development model, and some want to address those. Wu joined Yirenping, a nonprofit organization that promotes social equality, whether it is between sexes or among people with and without disabilities, and later founded the women's rights organization Hangzhou Women Center. And it is in Yirenping that she became particularly attuned to the challenges confronting young women in modern China. Wu and her colleagues have used innovative tactics with a certain shock factor -- ``occupying'' public toilets to show the need for more such conveniences for women, donning blood-spattered wedding gowns to protest domestic violence, shaving their heads to protest against barriers to higher education for women -- that raises awareness of gender inequality in ways that resonate, especially with young women in the country. Perhaps this is what the government finds threatening : that these activists epitomize the spirit of the times. They are young, confident, ready to challenge established norms, and most importantly, they feel responsible for their society and they want to improve it. As China prepares to mark the anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women in September, it will be harder for the authorities to justify detaining these activists. But even if they are released, their work promoting women's rights will have become exponentially more difficult. The women will now be labeled ``sensitive'' individuals at a time when the authorities are increasingly paranoid about independent groups, their role in fostering nonviolent protests and the overthrow of oppressive governments ( known as ``color revolutions'' ), and foreign funding of civil society organizations. What Wu and her colleagues are now enduring is consistent with a broader government effort to strangle independent activism. Authorities have harassed and detained an ever expanding list of activists, and imprisoned others, but they have also tried to co-opt some groups by allowing them to provide services the government finds acceptable, so long as they abandon their activism. This kind of ``differentiated management'' of nongovernmental organizations -- punishing some but co-opting others -- may work to neutralize some of the more outspoken groups. But ultimately the desires for change among ordinary people that make Wu and her friends' campaigns so popular are unlikely to be answered through ``authoritarian activism'' alone. The Chinese Communist Party now faces a dizzying array of challenges, not least that younger generations do not identify with the party or its values like past generations. Rather than lengthening its list of challenges, the party could resolve some and lessen concerns about its legitimacy by freeing and engaging activists like Wu and her colleagues, rather than treating them as criminals.
( CNN ) Jodi Arias was sentenced to life in prison Monday for the gruesome 2008 murder of her ex-boyfriend Travis Alexander. Maricopa County Judge Sherry Stephens could have sentenced Arias to life with the possibility of early release after 25 years, but decided the convicted killer should spend the rest of her life behind bars. Before her sentence was handed down, Arias expressed remorse for her actions. ``To this day I can't believe that I was capable of doing something that terrible,'' Arias said. ``I'm truly disgusted and repulsed with myself. I'm horrified because of what I did, and I wish there was some way I could take it back.''. Earlier, Travis Alexander's sisters gave their victim impact statements. Hillary Alexander said she's trying to block her brother from her life. ``I don't want to remember him anymore, because it hurts too much to remember him alive.. I remember how he was brutally taken from us and I can't handle it. This is what I've had to do so I can cope,'' she said through tears. Arias, 34, was found guilty of first-degree murder in May 2013. The jury that convicted her found the murder was especially cruel, making Arias eligible for the death penalty. However, that same jury was unable to reach a unanimous decision on whether she should live or die. A new jury was empanelled in October 2014 to decide Arias' fate, but they, too, were unable to reach a unanimous decision. Because a second jury was deadlocked in the penalty phase of Arias' case, the death penalty was taken off the table, leaving Arias' sentence up to the judge. Arias will serve her sentence at the Lumley Unit in the Arizona State Prison Complex-Perryville near Goodyear, Arizona.
( CNN ) No prostitutes. No ifs, ands or buts -- and yes, that includes when and where prostitution is perfectly legal. That was the message Friday from Attorney General Eric Holder to members of the U.S. Justice Department, which includes the FBI, U.S. Marshals Service, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and other agencies. ``The solicitation of prostitution threatens the core mission of the department,'' Holder wrote in a memo to all personnel in the department he heads.''.. Regardless of whether prostitution is legal or tolerated in a particular jurisdiction, soliciting prostitutes creates a greater demand for human trafficking and a consequent increase in the number of minor and adult persons trafficked into commercial sex slavery.''. Holder doesn't mention specific cases of federal agents and prostitution in his memo. Nor is he dictating a new policy ; the attorney general said only that he wanted ``to reiterate to all department personnel, including attorneys and law enforcement officers, that they are prohibited from soliciting, procuring or accepting commercial sex.''. Agents behaving badly overseas. The directive comes a few weeks after a Justice Department inspector general report found DEA agents in foreign postings attended sex parties with prostitutes paid for by drug cartels, among other indiscretions. That report, by department Inspector General Michael Horowitz, cited light punishments and poor handling of sexual misconduct cases at DEA and other Justice Department agencies. Justice Department employees don't have a monopoly on such stories : In 2012, a group of agents and officers in the Secret Service -- which is part of the Department of Homeland Security -- and officers sent to Colombia ahead of President Barack Obama were relieved of duty and returned home amid allegations of misconduct that involved prostitution. That prostitute visit was arranged for by a DEA agent stationed in Colombia, according to Horowitz's office. If someone from the ATF, FBI, Federal Bureau of Prisons or a federal prosecutor is caught with a prostitute they'll be suspended or fired, according to Holder's memo. ``This rule applies at all times during an individual's employment, including while off duty or on personal leave.''
( CNN ) Hillary Clinton finally answered the question we've all been asking for years : Will she run for president in 2016 ? With official news of her candidacy just hours old, one thing is already crystal clear : For the next year and a half, Clinton will be the barometer by which we assess gender equality in the United States. Win or lose, this creates a burden for her that no male candidate will ever have to shoulder. Just consider the two potential outcomes. A win would mean a woman in the White House, which is a vital step in the march toward women's full political inclusion. But it's possible that the march will end right there. We'll break our arms patting ourselves on the back for how far we've come. We'll raise the ``Mission Accomplished'' banner over the women's movement. And we'll call it a day. Granted, 80 % of elected officials throughout the country will still be men. Women will continue to be less likely than men even to consider running for office. And pay inequities, sexual assault and human trafficking will persist as challenges that no one person can solve, no matter how hard Clinton might try. ``But we've elected a woman as president,'' we'll say. Let her take care of it. A loss would be even more difficult. Clinton will be blamed for running a subpar campaign regardless of how brilliant her strategy is. More generally, her loss would perpetuate the myth that women can not win big elections, that the electoral environment is rife with bias and discrimination, and that women must be twice as good to get half as far. ``If Hillary Clinton can't win an election,'' potential female candidates will ask, ``How can I ?''. Extrapolating from one female candidate's experiences to women in politics more broadly is always suspect. But in the case of Clinton, it is particularly flawed for at least two fundamental reasons. First, Clinton is no ordinary female presidential candidate, if there is such a thing. She began the 2008 race with levels of name recognition that many candidates never achieve, and she is even more well-known today. But that means that she also enters the electoral arena with 23 years of public accomplishments and 23 years of well-publicized baggage. Voters, donors, journalists and pundits all hold clear impressions of Clinton before she ever eats a corn dog in Iowa, steps onto a debate stage in New Hampshire or takes a shot of bourbon in Kentucky. Too often, we treat Clinton's loss to Barack Obama in the 2008 Democratic primary as a referendum on how citizens feel about electing women to positions of political power. In reality, what people knew about Hillary Clinton likely shaped their views of Hillary Clinton. Widespread sexism and misogyny likely did not. After all, for decades, women who have run for office have performed just as well as men. They win elections at equal rates and routinely raise comparable amounts of money. Do some voters still question women's suitability as leaders ? Of course they do. But these attitudes, which have become increasingly rare, do not translate into systematic biases against female candidates. Second, presidential politics is, first and foremost, a partisan affair. The D or R in front of the candidates' names -- not the X or Y chromosomes in their DNA -- tells us about how more than 90 % of the population will vote. Party polarization has essentially rendered the importance of sex on the campaign trail far less relevant than might otherwise be the case. Now, I'll be the first to predict that by the middle of the week, we will be able to assemble a reel of sexist comments uttered by pundits, and we will be one mouse click away from a steady stream of misogynistic memes, photos and captions that have taken hold on social media. The Clinton campaign will once again have to determine which incidents to address, which to ignore and how to preempt future episodes. I don't want to diminish the problems associated with this type of behavior or the fact that it is inappropriate, disrespectful and appalling. And incorporating these concerns into a broad campaign strategy is likely something that male candidates won't need to consider. But men yelling ``Iron my shirt'' at a campaign rally, cable news pundits associating Clinton with their ex-wives outside of probate court and manufacturers producing Hillary Clinton nutcrackers do not change the fact that when it comes to presidential elections, partisanship and the state of the economy tell us almost everything we need to know. If Clinton wins the race, it will be because it was a good year for Democrats. And if she loses, it will be because the GOP developed a winning message. But how much does any of this really matter ? Sure, voters are amenable to electing women. Any Democratic nominee would face the same electoral landscape. The problems confronting women in society are just as grave regardless of who occupies the White House. And inferring too much from Hillary Clinton's experiences is a risky endeavor. Yet the minute Clinton announced her candidacy, she became the official litmus test for true gender equality in the United States. That's a label that no female candidate should have to wear. Let the burden begin.
( CNN ) It's a good thing -- a lucky thing -- that a bystander had the courage and presence of mind to record the shocking video that shows a white police officer, Michael Slager, gunning down and killing an apparently unarmed black man named Walter Scott after a traffic stop in North Charleston, South Carolina. And the resulting national wave of revulsion and indignation -- along with the prompt arrest of Slager on murder charges -- is a welcome and appropriate response. But the event raises broad, troubling questions about how often such incidents take place without the benefit of a third-party recording. It's not supposed to be a mystery : More than 20 years ago, Congress approved a law, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, signed by President Bill Clinton, that requires the federal Justice Department to collect data on deaths caused by police. The law has never truly been implemented, leaving us with patchy information about particular episodes rather than a comprehensive sense of how race and policing play out in America. ``What happened here today doesn't happen all the time. What if there was no video ? What if there was no witness -- or hero, as I call him -- to come forward ?'' said L. Chris Stewart, an attorney for Scott's family. ``As you can see, the initial ( police ) reports stated something totally different.''. That's putting it mildly. In early police statements -- issued before the video came to light -- Slager reportedly said that Scott attacked him, that he fired only after a scuffle and that cops made medical efforts to revive Scott. The video makes hash of those claims, and likely contributed to Slager's swift arrest and pending murder charges. ``When you're wrong, you're wrong,'' said North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey. That leaves Slager to face murder charges that could land him on death row -- and the rest of us to face a disturbing reality. I'm all for having police use body cameras, although they are not a magic cure for preventing or stopping the excessive use of force. But the much bigger problem is that we simply don't know when and where police killings take place, or whether they cluster in particular cities or states. And that means we don't know for certain whether unjustified or excessive force correlates with particular forms of officer training or detectable underlying racial bias. We don't even know the role played by officers operating under stressful conditions or while dealing with mental or physical illness. These vital questions aren't supposed to be a mystery. According to Section 210402 of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, ``The Attorney General shall, through appropriate means, acquire data about the use of excessive force by law enforcement officers.. The Attorney General shall publish an annual summary of the data acquired under this section.''. That section of the law has effectively been ignored, beyond a first attempt at a comprehensive report published in 1996. By 2001, a New York Times article noted that when it comes to police uses of deadly force, ``No comprehensive accounting for all of the nation's 17,000 police department exists.''. There are multiple reasons the law has been ignored. Collecting information from the nation's thousands of jurisdictions -- the myriad villages, counties and cities -- is a tough, expensive assignment. The job is even harder because many police departments, reluctant to air their dirty laundry, fail to distinguish between justified and unjustified killings on the reasonable grounds that it's up to the courts to rule on whether an officer has committed brutality -- something that's often established only after years of court proceedings. These hurdles could be overcome by a determined effort from Washington, but Congress has failed to press the Justice Department to demand the data and comply with the 1994 law. A weak substitute called the Death in Custody Reporting Act was passed in 2000 and renewed in 2014, but it is a voluntary reporting program intended to coax information out of local departments. Some of the data gap has been filled by media organizations -- and what they have discovered only underscores the need for muscular, mandatory enforcement of the data-gathering law. In 2011, the Las Vegas Review-Journal published an extensive investigation of police killings in and around Las Vegas and found 378 shootings over a 20-year period, 142 of which were fatal. In no case was an officer convicted or even fired because of an on-duty shooting. In South Carolina last month, The State newspaper published an examination of 209 instances in which officers shot at suspects, and found that only a handful of officers were charged, and none found guilty. ``In South Carolina, it remains exceedingly rare for an officer to be found at fault criminally for shooting at someone,'' the Columbia newspaper concluded. A group of activists has created a website called MappingPoliceViolence.org that flags cases of police killings ; its estimate that at least 304 black people were killed by police in 2014 may stand as the best guess we have about the dimensions of a national problem. But we shouldn't be guessing. As the Las Vegas Review-Journal editorialized in 2011 : ``How many lives might be saved if taxpayers everywhere were better informed about police shootings ? How can they know about a potential local problem without information ?.. Police already track everything from domestic violence to child abuse to murder, and police routinely lobby state and federal lawmakers to put new crimes into statute. The budgetary impact of adding another reporting category to local police forces would be minuscule. The social impact of such an addition, however, would be huge.''. That common-sense observation is being echoed by the Obama administration -- specifically, the President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing, created in December in response to widespread protests following the police killings of unarmed black men including Michael Brown and Eric Garner. The recently released interim report of the task force calls, one more time, for the Justice Department to collect comprehensive data from local departments. But it will take more pressure -- from activists, victims' families, members of Congress and President Barack Obama himself -- to demand an end to the stonewalling of information. It's long past time we got to the truth of how many more killings like Walter Scott's are happening without a video to set the record straight.
( CNN ) Recently, Nashville's district attorney banned prosecutors from offering female sterilization in plea deals. Believe it or not, Nashville prosecutors have offered this option four times in the past five years. There has been public outrage at the notion that a defendant in America in 2015 would be offered a choice of sterilization as part of a plea deal. Except, it happens all the time. Some have claimed this practice ``evokes a dark corner of American history'' where the mentally ill or ``deficient'' were forced to undergo sterilization. Yeah, that's true. We did that. And it was bad. Except this isn't quite that. Female sterilization is linked to the controversial ``eugenics'' movement, which advocated for the notion that the human race can be improved by selective breeding of people with superior genes. There is even a 1927 Supreme Court case, Buck v. Bell, in which the justices ruled that a state statute permitting compulsory sterilization of the unfit and ``imbeciles,'' ``for the protection and health of the state,'' was constitutional. The opinion in the case is stunning, especially because the Supreme Court has never technically overruled it. But Buck v. Bell dealt with involuntary sterilization of people because of their mental disabilities, not because they were being punished for a crime. You can hate sterilization, and the Tennessee case may have the creepy feel of the antiquated practice of eugenics, but it's not that. Present-day sterilization plea deals involve a voluntary choice of sterilization by persons accused of a crime, and for whom sterilization will be part of their punishment. Others may argue that the Supreme Court has already spoken on the issue of compulsory sterilization as punishment, and struck it down. That's true too, sort of. In Skinner v. Oklahoma, the Court struck down a law permitting compulsory sterilization of criminals as unconstitutional, but not because it was cruel and unusual. Instead, the law was struck down because the law was unequally applied for similar crimes. So the question remains : Is sterilization as a punishment unconstitutional ?. The Eighth Amendment provides : ``Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.''. Practically, however, punishments are rarely deemed cruel and unusual by the judiciary. We have executed people with hangings and by firing squad. Sterilization has to be somewhere below that, right ? Ultimately, however, the constitutionality of sterilization may be a red herring in this analysis, because it appears that even if a punishment vciolates the Constitution, it is permissible, if you willingly choose it. Suppose arguendo ( for argument's sake ) that sterilization is judicially labeled a cruel and unusual punishment, violating the Eighth Amendment. This is where it gets interesting : It still might be an appropriate and constitutional part of a plea deal. Shocked ? You shouldn't be. As citizens, we validly waive our constitutional rights all the time. You waive your Fourth Amendment protections against search and seizure when you answer ``yes'' to an officer's ``Mind if I look in your trunk ?'' You waive your Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination when you try to explain to the detective in the interrogation room how that body got in your vehicle's trunk. So then, if we can validly waive our other constitutional rights, can we waive our Eighth Amendment rights and choose a cruel and unusual punishment, even if it would otherwise be unconstitutional ? And are people outraged because this is a new step in punishment or a new frontier and a slippery slope in the world of plea deals ?. Nope. Sterilization statutes have been around for a while as punishment for defendants all over the country, and defendants have willingly chosen the procedure. If sterilization plea deals are likely constitutional, and we've been doing it for a while, then that begs the question : Why the outrage now ? Why the story that a Tennessee prosecutor was fired for a plea bargain that appears to be widely practiced ?. There are really only two possibilities. First, some people just had no idea that this was going on until this story hit the news. Second, even if we knew about it, we didn't mind the practice until now because of one fundamental difference. Most of the sterilization defendants are men. Search your feelings, Luke. When we talk about castrating men who are recidivist sexual predators and child molesters, the idea of castration as punishment doesn't sound so bad right ? Be honest : Let go of your ``we're - all-equal-in-all-ways'' banner for a moment. After all, not too long ago, execution was a legal punishment for nonhomicide sex crimes in some jurisdictions. So if we're OK with the gas chamber, we're probably OK with a snip. It's OK. You can admit it ; we are all hardwired with a modicum of gender bias, whether we like it or not. Still not convinced ? Watch this parlor trick : What if I suggested sterilization for a person convicted of having sex with a minor ? So far you're not ruling it out. And what if it's a young female high school teacher having sex with her 17-year-old student ? Most of our gut feelings shifted from ``maybe'' to ``no'' just now. It's OK to admit that, too. Of course, sterilization won't prevent a female sex offender from offending again, no more than sterilization will prevent a male offender from offending again. But the point is, somehow, the notion of sterilizing a male criminal somehow sits better with us than sterilizing a female criminal. Maybe it's that on a primal, unconscious level, what feels cruel and unusual punishment for a woman just feels less so for a man. Even if you're offended by this theory of why an old practice is now a ``shocking'' news story, you must concede it fits. Why else has castration of men not been a blip on the radar, but offering a woman the option of sterilization is suddenly a travesty ? Of course, we have to consider the related justification. Overall, a lot more men commit acts that merit sterilization than do women. Just ask any domestic violence prosecutor. Are sterilization plea deals morally right ? It's hard to say. For now, they appear to be constitutional, but controversial. If we know a mother is likely to kill or seriously hurt her current children or her unborn child, should the government step in ? If so, to what degree ? Fortunately, we can avoid a final decision and continue to attack the problem in a way that seems to be more acceptable for now : just keep neutering the men.
( CNN ) Emy Afalava is a loyal American and decorated veteran. He was born in American Samoa, a U.S. territory since 1900. He has been subject to American law his whole life and thinks he should be a citizen. The Constitution would agree. The Fourteenth Amendment declares that ``All persons born.. in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States.''. Yet, Afalava has been denied the right to vote because the federal government insists that he is no citizen. How can it be, in the 21st century, that Americans born on U.S. soil are denied the rights of citizenship ?. That injustice clouds the recent celebration of the 115th anniversary of the decision of American Samoa to join the United States. It is a wrong that Afalava and other American Samoans are now seeking to right in a federal lawsuit before the D.C. Circuit. A decision could come any day. Since the United States was established, it adhered to the rule that those born on U.S. lands were U.S. citizens. The rule is colorblind, yet the only exception that the Supreme Court has ever declared was not. The infamous Dred Scott case legitimized slavery as it declared that free African-Americans had ``no rights that the white man was bound to respect.'' Though they were Americans, they were not citizens under the Constitution. A Civil War later, the 14th Amendment reversed the ruling in the Dred Scott case. Today, the Dred Scott case has come to be regarded as one of the worst decisions in the history of the Supreme Court. But racial discrimination didn't end there. In 1904, a Puerto Rican woman named Isabel Gonzalez sailed for New York. Because Puerto Rico was U.S. territory, she believed herself to be a U.S. citizen. But officials at Ellis Island labeled her an undesirable alien and prevented her from entering the mainland. She sued, with some reason to hope for a favorable ruling. Yet the Supreme Court that eventually heard Gonzalez's case was still racist. In preceding years, for example, it had permitted a flat ban on naturalizing anyone of the Chinese race. And, in a case addressing the status of recently acquired island territories such as Puerto Rico, the justices had cited the alleged racial inferiority of tropical peoples as reason to treat these lands as second-class U.S. territories. Justice Edward Douglas White's opinion stated that U.S. sovereignty extended over them, but that their residents did not hold the same constitutional rights as other Americans. He did so, he privately revealed, because ``he was much preoccupied by the danger of racial and social questions.''. In the Gonzalez case, the justices agreed unanimously that Puerto Ricans were not aliens and thus not subject to immigration laws. But they declined to decide whether or not Gonzalez was a citizen. Though preoccupied by fears that islanders were ``savages'' and racially unfit for citizenship, they were unwilling to violate the Constitution. As a result of the court ruling, federal officials were able to deny Gonzalez and others the full panoply of rights conferred on citizens for years. As Isabel Gonzalez's lawyer told the Court, declaring that residents of America's island territories are not U.S. citizens would mean adding to ``precedents in our history of which we are least proud.'' Those precedents, he warned the Court, had been ``repudiated by the American people in the Civil War, by three amendments to the Constitution of the United States, by this court, and by.. advancing civilization.''. Surely, 147 years after the Dred Scott case was overturned, the time has come to put an end to this farce. In the past century, the inhabitants of every other U.S. island territory have become citizens. Today, Emy Afalava and his fellow American Samoans are the last Americans still waiting to become citizens.
( CNN ) After two days of deliberation, jurors found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty on all counts in the Boston Marathon bombing. The verdict isn't surprising. What might be, however, is the answer to how we prevent this kind of violence from happening again. Because there could be other more young men just like him, which means the lessons we take from Boston will affect whether we can keep America and Americans safer. Today, nearly 1 out of 4 people in the world are Muslim. By 2050, Pew reports, that will be some 1 out of 3. By 2070 ? Well, I'll quote the all-caps headline reprinted by the Drudge Report : ``Muslims to outnumber Christians !'' Many Americans read such numbers and worry : Will this mean more Dzhokhar Tsarnaevs ? But that's only if you believe Islam causes extremism, which many have argued. And that's wrong, of course. On the other hand, there are people who claim Islam has nothing to do with terrorism. Which is true -- and false. Sure, the Islamic faith forbids murder, but there's a small but significant minority of Muslims murdering people in terrible ways, and in Islam's name. Understanding what leads young Muslims like Dzhokhar down a dangerous path requires we understand radicalization. At any given moment in the Middle East, we have little idea who's going to attack whom next, who's on whom's side, how this is going to end, or what anyone's even fighting over anymore. This bad news is going to turn worse before it gets better. But it will get better. To understand why, we have to take a stab at understanding what radicalizes Muslims. Contrary to common belief, Muslims aren't unusually predisposed to violence. Radical Islam, which has taken on an ugly life of its own, began at the intersection of politics, religion and religious identity. Islam is about what you believe, but it's also about being part of a community. And what happens when you are a member of a community and you see it under attack ? Some Muslims who have turned to violence have done so with good intentions ( the road to hell, after all ). Consider : The tragedy of modern Islam is in its endless sequence of tragedies. Before my time, the brutal Soviet invasion of Afghanistan horrified many Muslims. When I was in high school, Bosnia occupied all our attention. There was of course Russia's brutal war on the Chechen people -- Dzhokhar shares his name with a recent Chechen patriot -- and Israel's ongoing occupation of the Palestinian territories. And the blows against Muslims don't end there. There was Serbia's war on Kosovo, another war in Chechnya, the invasion of Iraq, oppression in Myanmar, civil strife in Syria, the colonization of East Turkestan, massacres of Muslims in the Central African Republic, wars on a besieged Gaza and West Bank still under Israeli rule. Imagine how this looks to a restless young Muslim. Countless places where co-religionists have been killed, and nobody seems to do anything about it. Nobody even wants to. Extremists have long offered crude reasons for why the violence was happening, and then moved quickly to a single, tempting, terrible response : Take up arms -- and kill. In her new book, ``Heretic : Why Islam Needs a Reformation Now'', Ayaan Hirsi Ali argues that extremism isn't caused by political circumstances, but by Islam itself. Her conclusion is wrong. To fight extremism, we don't need to reform Islam. We need to show young Muslims that extremism is doing the opposite of what it claimed to. Rather than help Muslims, it's harming them. When I was a teenager, our Massachusetts mosque hosted a delegation from Bosnia that shared graphic, heartbreaking stories of rape, exile, and massacre inflicted on Muslims, all because of their faith. The mosque raised money, collected food, blankets, medicine. Promises were made to provide more, and regularly. But we all knew that wasn't enough. As we left the mosque, my peers and I were disgruntled and confused. Shocked. Angry. Our teachers could've told us : Go and fight. Defend your Muslim brothers and sisters who are under siege. Or they could've told us to keep our heads down and make money and live comfortably. Neither answer would have satisfied. Fortunately for us, they offered us a third way. They showed us, patiently, how to work with others, how to compromise, how to get things done. A more engaged American Muslim community, they explained, could use its resources to help people suffering all around the world. They were right. We saw the dead-end road of radicalism from afar, but we also saw, up close, how communities that isolated themselves and turned inward found themselves powerless, ineffectual and ignored. Thanks to social media, a medium that the world's burgeoning young Muslim population is increasingly comfortable with, more Muslims can and will see this, too. Radicalism will be done in by fellow Muslims who want to save their religion from this monster within it. It's happening already. Our national conversation about Islam is focused on the wrong issues. Does Islam need a Reformation ? What in Islam causes violence ? We would do a lot better if we accepted that Muslims the world over have real grievances -- dictatorships, corruption, foreign intervention, religious illiteracy, lack of economic opportunity -- and radicals exploit these. We need to show the young Dzhokhars that, if they want to help, then violence isn't going to help. To fight extremism, we need to pose this question to young Muslims : ``Do you want to help your brothers and sisters in faith ?'' Because those who claim to be defending us are making things so much worse. Their narrative has failed. Their solution is bankrupt. The Caliph wears no clothes. It's the reason why increasing numbers of Muslims reject extremism -- and not just because our numbers are increasing.
( CNN ) The new emojis are here ! On Thursday, Apple released a new version of its mobile operating system that includes more diversity than ever when it comes to the race, ethnicity and sexual orientation of its emojis -- those cute little images that users can insert into text messages or emails when words alone just won't cut it. The reaction to this new lineup is, as should be expected with almost anything new in today's hypersensitive climate, a range of cheers and jeers. Why is any of this important, you may ask ? For many, these images are far more than tiny clip art for texting. Rather they are seen as recognition that their own ethnicity, sexual orientation, race or even hair color is part of mainstream America -- despite what others might say. This matters in a digital age where texting is how most people communicate and represent themselves dozens -- if not hundreds -- of times every day. Think receiving a text of an image of a person smiling. Or more accurately, think of a white face smiling because up until Thursday's update, all the emojis had pale skin. But that has all changed. Now there's a range of emoji skin tones to pick from, including yellow, brown and black. I'm sure few people will be upset with this development. But how about in December ? Why ? Now that will be able to choose the skin tones for each human emoji, and that will also include.. Santa Claus. That shrieking sound you may have heard was from Fox News' Megyn Kelly, who famously stated in 2013 that Santa Claus is absolutely, definitely and without a doubt a white guy. In fact, thanks to Apple, we may even see Brown Santa emojis this December. ( Could that mean he's a Muslim Santa ?! Cue even more shrieking from Fox News. ). There is more. Apple has now given us gay and lesbian couple emojis, kissing with a heart over their heads. This inclusiveness was cheered by at least one gay news service on Twitter. It's not yet clear if a person who likes to use same-sex kissing emoji couples can be denied service by a person who objects on grounds of ``religious liberty.'' But it would be interesting to hear what any of the 2016 GOP presidential candidates might have to say about ``gay emojis.'' And I would predict some conservative will claim that the kissing gay emojis will turn children gay. The fact is, when you embrace diversity, you will still leave out other minority groups. Redheads, for example, are pretty pissed off because there are no emojis featuring their hair color. In fact, supporters of a redheaded emoji have started a petition that has already garnered several thousand signatures. Even expanding the flags represented by emojis, as Apple has done, comes at some peril. Apparently Canada is overjoyed that finally Apple has included it. But Armenians are not happy they were left out. I must admit that being partially of Palestinian heritage, it's heartening to see that despite the fact that some refuse to recognize a Palestinian state, Apple has chosen to now include a Palestinian flag emoji. Armenia, I feel your pain. Of course the bigger question in the whole diverse-emoji issue is : What took Apple so long ? How hard could it have been to add different skin colors to pick from ?. That the company ( finally ) did is a step in the right direction : America's demographics are changing, so our representations of who we are -- even representations as tiny as emojis -- should reflect this. Apple has ``evolved'' in showing diversity -- from brown people to same-sex couples. Maybe ``religious liberty'' conservatives who discriminate will follow.
( CNN ) I'm haunted by the video of Officer Michael Slager firing eight shots at Walter Scott as he fled his encounter with North Charleston police -- his back turned to the officer. What I find more disturbing is how the officer cuffs the fallen Scott and allows him to die face-down in the dirt while Slager appears to plant an item next to his body. I understand why people are skeptical of self-defense claims -- especially from law enforcement. If not for the video taken by a bystander, I can't help but think that this story would be shuttered behind the wall of an active investigation. As a defense attorney, I am more sensitive than anyone to the assumption of innocence for those accused of a crime, but this single piece of evidence -- a video of a man shot in the back while in full retreat -- defies any reasonable explanation. Thank God there was a camera. It will help ensure that justice will be served in this case. However, there is another camera that -- had it been deployed -- might have prevented the entire tragedy : a police body camera. Throughout the entire encounter with Scott, it's clear Slager had no idea someone was filming him. Had he known there would be video of his every move, would he have drawn his weapon on a fleeing man ? Would he have fired ? Eight times ? Would he have misrepresented the encounter on his police report ?. Of course not. If Slager had been wearing a body camera, Scott would probably still be alive, and Slager wouldn't be facing the possibility of life in prison -- or a possible death sentence. Body cameras are expensive to deploy, sure. And storing the massive amounts of data that body cameras create costs even more. That cost, however -- if we're talking the monetary kind -- may be eclipsed by the punitive damages delivered to Scott's family in an inevitable civil suit against the North Charleston Police Department. Most importantly, we have to ask ourselves this : What's the value of a human life ? Certainly it's worth the price of some mass data storage. And there's something else at stake. The public is losing confidence in law enforcement, and the strained relationship between minorities and police is reaching a breaking point. Every police shooting that captures headlines justifies an ever increasing fear of cops in the street. As fear ratchets up, so does the tension between cops and the people in the communities they serve. As tension rises, the risk of more shootings increases. It is a cycle of destruction that could lead to chaos. Police body cameras can help break this cycle. Studies have shown that both cops and people in the community act better when they know they are on camera. Complaints against cops decrease, and, most importantly, use-of-force incidents drop. I will admit that body cameras are only an interim solution. They only help compensate for the real underlying problem, which is this : There is a bias against black men that has infiltrated the criminal justice system, and we are seeing it in the disproportionate shooting of black men. When we look at this footage -- and when we see the dashboard camera from the other South Carolina officer who last year shot a man who was reaching for his driver's license -- it's clear that many cops are more likely to interpret actions, even routine actions, from black men as potentially aggressive. These may not be overtly racist cops. They may not intentionally treat black men differently, but we can't pretend that black men aren't being disproportionately targeted. All across the country, we see it happening, and with the proliferation of video, we're seeing it happen with alarming frequency. Somehow, we're going to have to beat this bias out of our system. Set tougher employment screening standards when hiring cops. Institute more training to help officers recognize the bias and adjust for it. As a society, we have to focus on the broad social changes needed to address disparities in income, education and opportunities -- disparities that keep us a racially divided nation. But social change, sadly, may take generations of hard work. In the meantime, if we can't immediately root out racial bias, we can at least put a bright spotlight on it, and we can start by focusing on the one interaction where racial bias results in the loss of life -- we can start by placing body-mounted cameras on cops.
London ( CNN ) The Pentagon released a map this week showing coalition forces have taken back 25-30 % of Iraqi territory seized by ISIS. The map, above, shows gains in key central and northern areas of Iraq where the terror group was previously the dominant force. The gains made in the fight against the terror group by Iraqi security forces and coalition air power certainly look impressive -- although as the U.S. Department of Defense acknowledges it's a dynamic conflict and territory can change hands depending on ``daily fluctuations in the battle lines.''. So, how exactly should we read this information ? What does it say about the wider fight against ISIS ?. CNN asked Afzal Ashraf, a counterinsurgency specialist and consulting fellow at the Royal United Services Institute to give us a steer on what this new data tells us about the fight against ISIS in Iraq. Below is an edited version of the conversation. CNN : So, is the tide turning in Iraq -- is the coalition winning ?. Afzal Ashraf : When it comes to insurgencies it's always problematic to think about the tide turning in terms of territorial gains because insurgencies by their very nature are extremely good at adapting to change. The one difference between ISIS and insurgencies in general is that ISIS declared itself a state, a caliphate once had territory so any loss is very strategic loss of prestige and image for them. ( There have been ) significant gains against ISIS -- particularly in Tikrit -- and it's no coincidence we've seen ISIS make spectacular attacks in refugee centers in Syria. It's asymmetric warfare, they know they can not hold conventional force back for very long so what they do is they withdraw.. then take initiative elsewhere. They have to distract attention from those losses by gains and attacks elsewhere. It continues their image of initiative, of shocking, of reshaping the world -- which is what they are trying to do. CNN : What does the map tell us about the coalition's strategy ?. AA : It's very telling. There are losses but most of the losses are around the edges of their territory and what that means is a very conventional push forward by the Iraqi forces. It's a push against the front line of ISIS rather than being brave and creative and going in behind ISIS's lines and breaking it up. What this isn't is using maneuverist warfare -- which is a military philosophy that exploits the capabilities of conventional forces to project power by using air forces to take land along main supply routes and put friendly forces on that land to cut land into chunks which causes massive disruption to command and control and their supply chains which can cause forces to collapse much more rapidly than a frontal push. The capability you need ( for this kind of warfare ) is much more high-tech than the capabilities the Iraqis have. Those capabilities are available in the region -- Jordanians, Egyptians and other forces have helicopters and aircraft -- and it's very interesting that the Middle Eastern nations have not developed an effective coalition to target ISIS which is an existential threat. CNN : What about Ramadi ? ISIS seems to be winning there. AA : Ramadi has been a potential battlefield for the past decade. But in this context ( ISIS ) will.. be pushing in Ramadi because that's an area they have lots of support. It also diverts their attention away from losses to their gains. The concept of success is hugely important to them -- it's what sustains the recruitment effort of ISIS. Nobody wants to join a bunch of losers, so it's very important for them to be seen to be succeeding. Above all this is a rhetorical war that is being fought deliberately in the media. They are losing so of course they are going to try to distract us by destroying ancient statues in Nimrud and killing refugees in camps like Yarmouk. But where it counts they are not standing and fighting.
( CNN ) Laying down tracks for their debut album in the recording studio in Los Angeles, Iman Hashi, 25 and her sister Siham, 27 could not be further from their hometown of Mogadishu. The sisters were born in the Somali capital but were forced to flee after war broke out in 1991. Along with their parents, the girls relocated to Canada as refugees where during their teens they discovered a passion for music. Heading south to LA by way of Atlanta, the singing sisters with a bold flair for fashion are now embarking on a musical journey, gearing up to unleash their Afro-pop sound to the world. CNN's African Voices caught up with the sister act -- known collectively as Faarrow ( combining the translation of their names into English -- Iman means ``Faith'' and Siham means ``Arrow'' ) to talk about music, aspirations and Somalia. CNN : Hi guys, thanks for chatting with me today. What are some of your musical influences ?. Iman : We love Michael Jackson, Lionel Richie -- stuff my mom would listen to and play -- and the Spice Girls. We used to die for the Spice Girls. I love new artists now but I don't know if it's a nostalgia, but I remember.. my mom used to pump whatever -- Mariah Carey, Whitney Houston. CNN : You are working on your debut album now -- how's that been ?. Siham : We've been working with Elijah Kelley -- he's actually an actor. He was in ``Hairspray,'' ``The Butler,'' and most recently he was in the George Lucas animation, ``Strange Magic.'' That's what he's more known for but his first passion is music. He's an incredible producer, writer and singer. I just felt like he was always the missing piece. He brought everything together. CNN : So now that you've found your ``missing piece,'' how would you describe your sound ?. Siham : Our music before was experimenting with Afrobeat sounds but now it's more of a fusion ( of what ) we are inspired by. It's pop with undertones of hip hop and rhythmic African percussion. It's a fusion of everything. CNN : And do you guys write the songs as well ?. Siham : The entire album was pretty much ( written and produced ) by me, my sister and Elijah. And when we signed we already had a lot of those songs already done. Warner Brothers Records is really great in that way that they already loved what we were doing and let us do our own thing. CNN : What are you listening to right now ?. Siham : Oh my God, there's so many !. Iman : Sia with ``Chandelier.''. Siham : I really love this new song -- I don't know if Iman is going to agree with me -- but his name's LunchMoney Lewis, it's called Bills ; I love it. CNN : As well as your music, you both work with the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) -- how did you start your humanitarian work ?. Iman : Ever since we were kids we wanted to help Somalia, we always talked about it. But we were like ``what can we physically do ?''. We were doing some research and we called our mom and she said `You know you still have family over there. There's a refugee camp in Kenya and your great uncle and his kids live in a refugee camp.' And we did some research about Dadaab refugee camp, it's a massive camp that has taken in Sudanese refugees, Somali refugees, Rwandan refugees -- pretty much anywhere there was a conflict. Everybody fled to Dadaab. In the beginning ( it was ) pure advocacy talking about it on Twitter and Facebook. CNN : But then you decided to ``up your game'' as it were.. Iman : Yes, then we started a non-profit and we'd do small benefit concerts in Toronto and in San Diego -- wherever there was a big Somali community we would do outreach but all we had was our singing, working with UNHCR in a capacity as a spokesperson. We headlined World Refugee Day at the Kennedy Center, as well as the Nansen Awards twice in Geneva. We felt like this platform of singing -- the bigger it gets, the more we can do. Siham : We obviously love fashion so we wanted to do our own socially conscious brand so we've been making these bracelets and necklaces called ``Wish Creatively.'' Wish stands for ``Women Internationally Selling Hope.'' We wanted to do a socially conscious brand where we sell these bracelets where it goes back to projects in Kenya or Somalia with women providing them with a sustainable income. CNN : So what's next for you two ?. Siham : We're actually in the mixing process right now. We still have a few ( tracks ) to finish up but the majority of the album is pretty much done. We want to turn it in as soon as possible so they can put together a rollout plan and get ready for the first single to drop. Iman : I don't feel like we ever lost that feeling like we're creative spokespersons for our generation as well as for Somalia. I feel like now because we followed our dreams it's like `they're not just refugees anymore.' We don't have to become doctors so we can one day give back to Somalia and help rebuild -- it's such a beautiful dream but not ours. In our culture, anything creative is not really respected or appreciated. But I feel like now but even with our new deal we're still trucking along. I feel like we inspire people. Read this : Nigerian soul singer Nneka is back !. Read this : Angelique Kidjo takes no prisoners. More from African Voices.
( CNN ) Even in the horror of Syria's civil war, there are few places that showcase the scale of the destruction -- and the senselessness of the loss of life -- more than the Yarmouk camp on the outskirts of Damascus. Set up as a refugee camp for Palestinians in the 1950s, it slowly evolved into a neighborhood over the years, but since 2012 it has been engulfed in the Syrian conflict. Two weeks ago ISIS fighters stormed Yarmouk, and that made life for those still inside even worse than it was before. The Syrian government responded by unleashing a bombing and shelling campaign on the area, residents told CNN, including barrel bombs that flattened many of the buildings already scarred by the three-year-long conflict. Death comes day and night. ``I looked up and saw dust,'' one resident said. ``I opened the door and started walking outside and started shouting to the neighbors. One told me' I am wounded,' another one didn't answer me at all. That second one -- may god have mercy on his soul -- he was martyred.''. While the battle for Yarmouk is very typical of Syria's civil war, the conflict here is unique. Most of those fighting on all sides are Palestinians. Pro-government factions besiege the area from the outside, cutting off supplies and aid most of the time. The inside is held by anti-regime groups, some of which are Islamists. The situation in Yarmouk was thrust in to the headlines on April 1 when ISIS fighters stormed the rebel-held area and unleashed a campaign of violence and killings. Since then, a local activist tells CNN, ISIS has withdrawn to another area and left the al Qaedalinked group Jabhat al-Nusra in charge of the district. `The deepest circle of hell' : Terrified Yarmouk residents describe ISIS raid. But this is only the most recent in a deadly urban war that is slowly grinding down Yarmouk's buildings and people. Of the more than 100,000 that used to live there, only about 18,000 remain, according to UNRWA, the U.N. agency tasked with aiding Palestinians. I have been to Yarmouk on various occasions, and the picture has always been the same. Pro-government factions surrounded the area and there was house-to house combat, mostly at night. A lot of destruction, very little territorial gain for either side, all of it taking a horrifying toll on the civilians trapped in the middle. ``We have no food or water,'' one resident said, standing amid the ruins of Yarmouk's houses. ``They should open a route so we can eat and drink and they can deliver assistance and food. We have nothing. What can we do ?''. But international aid groups can do very little. There are few occasions where aid is allowed into Yarmouk, or where civilians are allowed out. UNRWA can only care for those who do manage to escape. U.N. official to visit besieged refugee camp. The agency, along with the Syrian Arab Red Crescent, runs several shelters for displaced people in government-controlled areas near the camp. Pierre Krahenbuhl, the Commissioner General for UNRWA, recently visited some of them and acknowledged that far too little help was reaching those who need it most. ``We have to call on the world and call on all the actors in the world who can influence the situation to mobilize,'' Krahenbuhl said. ``But much more has to be done to respect the civilians and to make sure that they are safe inside the camp.''. But of course those still inside are by no means safe -- subjected to shelling, bombing and street combat on top of being thirsty, hungry and in need of medication. But one thing that has not been broken is the residents' self-respect and pride. ``This is Yarmouk camp and we are not leaving our homes,'' one man said. ``Whatever happens, if they keep hitting us with barrel bombs we will die.''. An elderly woman recalled her life as a Palestinian refugee. ``I fled Palestine when I was seven years old,'' she said. ``But I will not leave the Yarmouk camp even if I am 75 or 76 years old. Yarmouk camp is equal to my soul. I built it with my bare hands. I carried its stones on my head from a village and laid the foundation to my home. Block by block I carried them on my head.''. But despite their defiance, there's seemingly nothing that can be done to prevent Yarmouk from being reduced to rubble. This is a war of attrition, two sides fighting for inches in tough combat without seeing that they are wrecking the prize they claim to be fighting for. Desperation for Palestinians trapped in Syrian refugee camp.
( CNN ) In 2013, ``The Bible'' broke ratings records on the History Channel, so of course, a sequel was ordered up -- and this one is on NBC. The new miniseries from Mark Burnett and Roma Downey is one of six shows to watch this week. 1. ``A.D. The Bible Continues,'' 9 p.m. ET Sunday, NBC. Just in time for Easter, the peacock network debuts the ``Bible'' sequel, picking up with Jesus' resurrection and following the early days of Christianity. NBC scored on picking up the follow-up to the smash cable hit, starring Juan Pablo Di Pace as Jesus and Greta Scacchi as Mary ( replacing Downey in the role ). The full miniseries will run for 12 weeks, so consider it a spring revival. 2. ``Mad Men,'' 9 p.m. Sunday, AMC. We've arrived at the end, ``Mad Men'' fans. This is the first of the last several episodes, where we'll learn the fate of Don Draper and the cast of characters. Click here for more on ``Mad Men.''. 3. ``American Odyssey,'' 10 p.m. Sunday, NBC. Anna Friel ( ``Pushing Daisies'' ) stars as a special forces translator in Mali who is believed to be dead by those back in the States. On the show, she struggles to get back home, while we discover how she ended up how she did. 4. ``Louie,'' 10:30 Thursday, FX. Louis C.K.'s critically-acclaimed comedy is back for a fifth season. Will Louie continue to offend people in his life ? All signs point to yes. Is Louie still dating his best friend-turned-girlfriend, Pamela ? We'll have to tune into find out. 5. ``The Comedians,'' 10 p.m. Thursday, FX. Billy Crystal returns to television, with co-star Josh Gad, as two people starring in an FX comedy. It's a meta mockumentary about the making of a comedy show. ``Seinfeld'' and ``Curb Your Enthusiasm's'' Larry Charles is among the producers. 6. ``Marvel's Daredevil,'' Friday, Netflix. This ain't Ben Affleck's movie. Now that Marvel has the rights to the ``Man Without Fear'' back, they've decided to launch several series for Netflix, starting with this dark, gritty drama about blind lawyer Matt Murdock, and his moonlighting as a costumed avenger ( no pun intended ).
( CNN ) For superhero fans, the cup runneth over. Most of us know the members of the Avengers by now : Iron Man, Captain America, Hulk and the rest, and the fact that a few more like Quicksilver are joining the cast in the ``Avengers : Age of Ultron'' sequel. But there was one character who remained a mystery : the Vision, to be played by Paul Bettany. Thus far, we've only seen his eyes in a trailer. With less than a month to go before the movie hits theaters, Marvel Studios put all the speculation to rest with a poster featuring Bettany as the heroic android, who was a member of the superhero group for many years in the comics. Meanwhile, as many Marvel fans know, Thursday was the eve of the new Netflix series ``Daredevil,'' and after a photoshopped first look at Charlie Cox's iconic red Daredevil suit went out, Marvel put out a video of the real one. Not to be outdone, director Bryan Singer announced a new character for next year's sequel ``X-Men : Apocalypse,'' by telling Empire magazine that Ben Hardy would be playing the role of the winged mutant Angel. He even had a photo to share. And Thursday's new super images weren't quite done, because the questions over how Jamie Bell's rocky character The Thing in the rebooted ``Fantastic Four'' movie ( out August 7 ) might look were also finally answered. And he looks.. pretty much like The Thing we already knew ( but reportedly, CGI this time ). Within 24 hours, we got yet another indication that the superhero trend isn't going anywhere anytime soon ( and we didn't even talk about the new photo of Ryan Reynolds' ``Deadpool'' ).
( CNN ) Ursula Ward kept repeating her son's name -- Odin. She steadied herself against the podium in the Fall River, Massachusetts, courtroom and occasionally paused. She was tired after more than two years of pain, punctuated Wednesday when her son's killer, Aaron Hernandez, was convicted of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison. Odin Lloyd was her first born, her only son. ``Odin was the backbone of the family. Odin was the man of the house. Odin was his sisters' keeper,'' Ward told Judge Susan Garsh, before Garsh sentenced the former pro-football player. Lloyd was 27-years-old and working for a landscaping firm when he was killed in June 2013. He played football for the Boston Bandits, the oldest semi-pro team in Boston and the winner of four championships in the New England Football League, according to the team's website. His mother, sister, uncle and cousin described him as a champion of family, a gifted athlete and a hard worker with a sense of humor. They said he rode his bike several miles to get to work. He went to all of his niece's recitals. ``Odin was my first best gift I ( will ) ever receive,'' his mother said. ``I thank God ( for ) every second and every day of my son's life that I spent with him. ``The day I laid my son Odin to rest,'' she continued, pausing to maintain her composure, ``I think my heart stopped beating for a moment. I felt like I wanted to go into that hole with my son, Odin.''. She can still hear him talking to her :'' `Ma, did you cook ? Ma, go to bed. Ma, you're so beautiful.'''. Ed Lloyd followed Ward to address the judge. Odin Lloyd's uncle thanked everyone who worked on the case against Hernandez. His nephew, he said, ``meant a lot to me.''. ``To see how he grew, the respect he had, the toughest thing for me is that I won't get to see him have a child..,'' Ed Lloyd said. He loved watching his nephew and his son together. ``A lot of people won't see from the outside the value and the riches ( Odin Lloyd ) had,'' he said. ``I'm sorry for where I stand today but I know that all the time I had with him was special and he'll always be with me.''. Who was Odin Lloyd ?. Odin Lloyd's sister Olivia Thibou wept as she explained what it has felt like to lose her brother. ``These last couple years have been the hardest of our lives,'' she said, recalling that she was asked to writer her brother's eulogy. ``I got to write all the great memories I have of him.''. She laughed, recalling his insistence on wearing the same Adidas flip-flops until the soles wore away. He was ``prideful,'' she said. He would take her car out and just when she was starting to angry, he'd pull in with the car shining and clean, inside and out. He taught her daughter how to ride a bike. His murder, she said, ``feels like a bad dream.''. Ward told the court that she constantly thinks about her son. ``I miss my baby boy Odin so much,'' she said. ``But I know I'm going to see him again someday and that has given me the strength to go on.''. She has also apparently gained strength from the act of forgiveness. ``I forgive the hands of the people that had a hand in my son's murder,'' she said. ``I pray and hope that someday everyone out there will forgive them also.''. What's next for Aaron Hernandez ?
( CNN ) Danny Kahneman, my good friend and co-author who got a Nobel Prize in economics, once helped to run an experiment involving patients undergoing colonoscopies. One group received a mildly pleasurable experience at the end of the procedure ; the other group, which experienced the same type of colonoscopy, did not. It turns out that the group for whom things ended well had significantly more positive recollections of the whole affair from its beginning. The psychology of it is simple to understand : Happy endings matter. Even an unpleasant experience can lead to happy memories in hindsight if it ends well. So too with taxes. Let's just say that when it comes to taxes for the average American, ``stuff'' happens ( keeping the colonoscopy metaphor running ), paycheck to tax-reduced paycheck. But recent statistics suggest that 8 out of 10 American taxpayers get a refund when they file their taxes, and the average amount is close to $ 3000. That pays for a lot of stuff. To make the good news even better, tax filing has gotten rather simple for most people, with various software and service providers offering to do the dreaded paperwork for free. No filing headaches and a check to boot. What's not to like ?. The fact of the matter is there is plenty not to like when it comes to the U.S. tax system. For example, the laws are biased against two-worker marriages ; taxes go up when two relatively equal earners marry, as the rate brackets for couples are less than double that for single filers. Taxes are also overly complex and essentially optional for the truly rich, who make their wealth off of their existing wealth, the largely untaxed returns from capital, rather than by getting ordinary paychecks like most of us. But now is not the time to explain such serious matters ; the people are too busy spending their refunds. The once dreaded Tax Day has become a happy spending spree for most Americans. This state of short-term bliss follows from some deep trends in our tax laws. In brief, the U.S. income tax system is increasingly a wage tax, with limited taxes on capital ( what the rich have ) and limited deductions for most of us. For example, 3 out of 4 Americans using a standard deduction get no break for their charitable contributions. All of this has been hashed and rehashed by politicians, professors and pundits. But who has time for that ? Let's go to our television sets and check out the commercials. One clever spot ran during the recent Super Bowl, suggesting that the Boston Tea Party -- a tax revolt -- could have been averted with free online filing, which the sponsor was eager to provide. Filling out 1040s was part of what made the income tax so odious for the masses for such a long time -- who doesn't remember our parents fretting over shoeboxes of receipts sometime in April, the cruelest month ?. Now as Tax Day approaches, we are flooded with advertisements about America getting its billions back, without even having to pay to prepare the forms. We get paid to play ! Here is the happy ending that Kahneman and others have shown can mitigate the memories of unpleasantness past. The simple fact is that a simple tax is also rather simple to administer. Service providers kindly offer to help out the masses of befuddled Americans. Of course, these kind souls want their happy endings too. They are betting that once the large refunds become obvious to their customers, the grateful taxpayers-turned-consumers will happily purchase add-on services, such as ``audit protection insurance,'' or perhaps deposit the money in financial accounts managed by the provider. Just as lottery winners notoriously go on impulsive spending sprees, the ``found money'' of tax returns can finance many nice purchases. Of course, there are still those annoying matters of the deep unfairness of the tax laws, biased against modern families and wage earners, and in favor of the rich living off capital. No real bother -- stuff happens. Let others fret about fairness. As long as our taxpaying or colon procedures end with a smile -- or a check -- who has time to dwell on the bad stuff that came before ?
( CNN ) Former New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandez will need to keep his lawyers even after being convicted of murder and other charges in the death of Odin Lloyd. The 25-year-old potentially faces three more trials -- one criminal and two civil actions. Next up is another murder trial in which he is accused of killing two men and wounding another person near a Boston nightclub in July 2012. Prosecutors have said Hernandez fatally shot Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado when he fired into their 2003 BMW. Another passenger was wounded and two others were uninjured. Hernandez pleaded not guilty at his arraignment. The trial was originally slated for May 28, but Jake Wark, spokesman for the Suffolk County District Attorney's Office, said Wednesday the trial had been postponed and no new date had been set. ``We expect to select a new court date in the coming days and then set the amended trial track. The Suffolk indictments allege two counts of first-degree murder for the July 16, 2012, shooting deaths of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado in Boston's South End ; three counts of armed assault with intent to murder and one count of assault and battery by means of a dangerous weapon for shots fired at three surviving victims ; and one count of unlawful possession of a firearm,'' he said. The families of de Abreu and Furtado filed civil suits against Hernandez, and a judge froze his $ 5 million in assets, pending the outcome of the double-murder trial. The freeze includes the disputed $ 3.3 million signing bonus payment Hernandez claims he is owed by the New England Patriots. Hernandez is also being sued by a man who claims Hernandez shot him while they were in a limousine in Miami in February 2013. Alexander Bradley claims the then-New England Patriot tight end wounded him after the two got into a fight at a Miami strip club. In a lawsuit filed four months later, Bradley said Hernandez fired at him during a limo ride after leaving the club and that Hernandez intentionally ``possessed a gun which he was not legally licensed to have.''. Hernandez's lawyers have argued he couldn't defend himself properly while on trial in Massachusetts. There was no criminal charge in the case. And then there is the grievance over unpaid bonus money filed by the NFL players union on behalf of Hernandez, who signed a contract in 2012 that potentially was worth more than $ 40 million. If the grievance is heard by the league, Hernandez will be represented by the the National Football League Players' Association. Who was Odin Lloyd ?. CNN's Lawrence Crook contributed to this report.
( CNN ) As Americans mark the 150th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's death this week, let us remember that he not only belongs to the ages, but also belongs, in a special way, to Illinois. Lincoln's two greatest legacies -- indivisible union and irreversible emancipation -- grew organically from his Midwestern roots. He knew firsthand that no defensible border shielded the land of corn from the land of cotton. The entire region from the Appalachians to the Rockies drained through the Mississippi River, enabling farmers in this vast basin to float their goods down to market through New Orleans and from there to the world. He thus could never allow a potentially hostile power to control this geostrategic chokepoint in particular, or Dixie more generally. The U.S. landmass, he insisted, ``is well adapted to be the home of one national family ; and it is not well adapted for two, or more'' because ``there is no line, straight or crooked, suitable for a national boundary upon which to divide.''. Lincoln supplemented his Midwestern geography lesson with a distinctly Midwestern claim about constitutional history : ``The Union is older than any of the States ; and in fact, it created them as States.''. Lincoln did not need to make this controversial claim to prove his case, and elsewhere he stressed the decisive legal point that the Constitution's text clearly prohibits unilateral secession. The Constitution is always and everywhere the supreme law of the land -- no matter what an individual state says. But Lincoln's additional assertion that the Union created the states, not vice versa, provoked strong disagreement in other parts of the country. Most Virginians, including Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee, insisted that of course Virginia had come first ! At the outbreak of the American Revolution, the Old Dominion was already a century and a half old. Generations of Lees had helped govern Virginia long before the United States was born. But if Lee was, first and always, a Virginian, Lincoln was an American. His father came from Virginia, his grandfather hailed from Pennsylvania, and before that, the family had probably lived in New England. Abe himself had been born in Kentucky and had moved as a boy to Indiana, and later, as a young man, to Illinois. These latter two Midwestern states had undeniably been formed by the Union itself. These places had begun as federal territory -- the common inheritance of all Americans -- and it was the federal government that had indeed brought these new states to life. When young Abe moved to Indiana, it was just becoming a state, thanks to federal governmental action. It was a wise set of federal policies -- proper land surveys and a commitment to public education -- that had drawn the Lincolns and countless other Kentuckians to leave the Bluegrass State for a brighter future in the Midwest. Retracing Lincoln's assassination 150 years later. That brighter future also involved freedom from slavery. The Old Northwest had always been free soil, as provided for by a Northwest Ordinance that predated the U.S. Constitution. The words of the 13th Amendment -- the only constitutional amendment that Lincoln would live to sign -- promised to end slavery everywhere in America and did so by borrowing verbatim from Article 6 of the Northwest Ordinance. True, geography is not inexorable destiny. Many other Midwesterners in Lincoln's era embraced slavery and secession. Hugo Black, the Supreme Court justice who did the most to make Lincoln's constitutional vision a reality over the next century, was born and raised in Alabama. But geographic variation has always been a large part of America's constitutional saga. In the 1860 election that brought him to power, Lincoln swept almost all the Northern states, but did miserably in the slaveholding south. John Wilkes Booth, the dastard who ended Lincoln's life 150 years ago this week, was an embittered extremist from a slave state. So was Lincoln's nemesis on the Supreme Court, Chief Justice Roger Taney. Taney's most infamous ruling, the pro-slavery Dred Scott decision in 1857, had emerged from a court dominated by the South ; although slave states accounted for less a third of America's free population, this region held an absolute majority of the seats on the court. Remembering Lincoln's murder. In our era, given the fact that Republican appointees have held a majority of the court for the last 40 years, the court has been rather moderate. Much of this moderation has come courtesy of northern Republicans on the Court -- most notably, Minnesota's Harry Blackmun, Illinois' John Paul Stevens, and New Hampshire's David Souter. All nine of the current justices learned their law in liberal New England, at Harvard or Yale, and the Republican appointee most attentive to gay rights, Anthony Kennedy, grew up in northern California, a corner of the country renowned for its respect for alternative lifestyles. Which takes us back to Lincoln. When Anthony Kennedy was a lad in California's state capital, the governor, a friend of the Kennedy family, was a Lincoln Republican named Earl Warren -- a man who would later author the Court's iconic opinion in Brown v. Board of Education, vindicating the constitutional amendments enshrined by Lincoln and his allies. Today, both parties at their best claim Lincoln. Jeb Bush aims to appeal to the better angels of our nature and Rand Paul is a Kentuckian who professes interest in racial outreach. Hillary Clinton was born an Illinois Republican. And the leader of her adopted political party -- who also happens to be president -- is a lanky and brainy lawyer from Illinois who knows how to give a good speech, and who swept to power in 2008 by recreating Lincoln's geographic coalition, winning every state within a four-hour drive of Chicago. In the largest sense, then, all Americans, of both parties and all regions -- whether or not they have ever set foot in Illinois -- are living in the Land of Lincoln.
Polk City, Florida ( CNN ) If you drove by it, you wouldn't even know it's there. The Ringling Bros. Center for Elephant Conservation sits on 200 acres of land in rural central Florida, halfway between Orlando and Sarasota, off a nondescript country road. An armed security guard greets you at the entrance. After a short drive down a gravel road, you get the sense this is a special place. ``You can walk around and you don't hear anything,'' said Kenneth Feld, who opened the center in 1995. ``These elephants, they have these large feet and they travel silently through the fields. I think it's very peaceful.''. Twenty-nine elephants currently live here, and 13 more will join the group by 2018, after Ringling Bros. decided this year to stop using elephants in its traveling circus. ``This was a decision that our family had discussed for quite some time,'' said Feld, chairman and CEO of Feld Entertainment, the company that owns Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey. The change comes after years of repeated criticism and lawsuits by animal rights groups. The ultimate decision to phase out the elephants, Feld said, is the result of the different laws regulating the use of the animals in each of the 115 cities the circus visits every year. ``You can't operate any business, much less with animals, if you don't have consistency from city to city,'' Feld said. ``It's a definite expense to be in litigation and to be fighting legislation, and there is a saying and it's been around for a long time : `You can't fight city hall.' And we found that to be the case in this situation.''. The circus business has been a part of the Feld family since 1967, when Irvin Feld purchased Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey. When Irvin died in 1984, his son, Kenneth, took over. ``This is a whole family affair,'' he said. ``It's a family affair for our family but also for all the elephants.''. When the center opened 20 years ago, it housed fewer than 10 elephants. ``It was a place for elephants to retire,'' Feld said. Today, the center houses elephants of all ages. ``We have lots of different elephants, meaning males and females, youth elephants, older elephants, so it is a great place to study behavior,'' he said. The center is also focused on breeding the animals. Wendy Kiso, a research and conservation scientist, spends her days at an onsite lab, trying to figure out how to keep the species from going extinct. Part of her lab includes several tanks that ``cryo-preserve'' elephant sperm at negative-196 degrees. ``We process the semen and we extend it in such a way that we can freeze it,'' Kiso said. ``This is a genetic resource bank for Asian elephants.''. Twenty-six elephants have been born here, Feld said. Mike, the newest pachyderm to join the group, was born at the center's birthing barn nearly two years ago. ``We have the largest and only sustainable herd of Asian elephants in the Western Hemisphere,'' Feld said. Caring for the elephants is no small task. Trudy Williams and her husband, Jim, spend their time taking care of the animals' daily needs. It takes the couple hours to bathe, walk and feed the elephants every day. ``First thing in the morning, we water them, and give them some treats and feed them some hay,'' Williams said. Each elephant eats about 150 pounds of food a day. Twenty-one tons of hay usually lasts only 10 days at the center. Exercise is also part of the daily routine, including stretching. ``We just do that a few times on each leg with them, just to give them a good stretch,'' Williams said. ``We do some footwork with them. All of our elephants, generally once a month, get a pedicure, just to make sure their feet are in good condition.''. All of this care isn't cheap. ``Each elephant costs over $ 65,000 a year, per year, over all the years of their life,'' Feld said. ``We're fortunate we're for profit. We do make a profit and we're a privately owned family business, and so we've made a decision we want to devote a lot of resources here.''. It's a price Feld said he's willing to pay to keep this species -- some varieties of which in Asia and Africa are endangered -- alive for generations to come. ``I always say, it's sort of like Jurassic Park with a happy ending,'' Feld said. ``We knew that if we didn't do something, maybe my grandchildren would never have the opportunity to see these incredible animals.''. CNN's Javier de Diego contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Arsenal kept their slim hopes of winning this season's English Premier League title alive by beating relegation threatened Burnley 1-0 at Turf Moor. A first half goal from Welsh international Aaron Ramsey was enough to separate the two sides and secure Arsenal's hold on second place. More importantly it took the north London club to within four points of first placed Chelsea, with the two clubs to play next week. But Chelsea have two games in hand and play lowly Queens Park Rangers on Sunday, a team who are themselves struggling against relegation. Good form. Arsenal have been in superb form since the start of the year, transforming what looked to be another mediocre season struggling to secure fourth place -- and with it Champions League qualification -- into one where they at least have a shot at winning the title. After going ahead, Arsenal rarely looked in any danger of conceding, showing more of the midfield pragmatism epitomized by the likes of Francis Coquelin, who also played a crucial role in the goal. ``He has been absolutely consistent in the quality of his defensive work,'' Arsenal coach Arsene Wenger told Sky Sports after the game when asked about Coquelin's contribution to Arsenal's current run. They have won eight games in a row since introducing the previously overlooked young Frenchman into a more defensive midfield position. ``He was a player who was with us for seven years, from 17, he's now just 24,'' Wenger explained. ``Sometimes you have to be patient. I am very happy for him because he has shown great mental strength.''. Now all eyes will be on next week's clash between Arsenal and Chelsea which will likely decide the title. ``They have the games in hand,'' said Wenger, playing down his club's title aspirations. ``But we'll keep going and that's why the win was so important for us today.''. Relegation dogfight. Meanwhile it was a good day for teams at the bottom of the league. Aston Villa continued their good form since appointing coach Tim Sherwood with a 1-0 victory over Tottenham, who fired Sherwood last season. Belgian international Christian Benteke scored the only goal of the game, his eighth in six matches, to secure a vital three points to give the Midlands club breathing space. Another Midlands club looking over their shoulder is West Brom, who conceded an injury time goal to lose 3-2 against bottom club Leicester City. But it was an awful day for Sunderland's former Dutch international coach Dick Advocaat, who saw his team lose 4-1 at home against form team Crystal Palace. Democratic Republic of Congo international Yannick Bolasie scored Crystal Palace's first ever hat trick in the Premier League to secure an easy victory.
( CNN ) SPOILER ALERT ! It's not just women getting cloned. That was the big twist at the end of ``Orphan Black's'' second season. The kickoff to the new season leads the list of six things to watch in the week ahead. 1. ``Orphan Black,'' 9 p.m. ET, Saturday, April 18, BBC America. The cloning cult sci-fi series remains one of the most critically acclaimed shows on TV, thanks in large part to the performance of Tatiana Maslany, who has taken on at least six roles on the show so far, including a newly introduced transgender clone. Maslany told reporters this week that we can expect even more impressive scenes with multiple clones. ``We like to push the boundaries of what we're able to do and the limits of those clone scenes,'' she said. ``So, yes, you'll definitely see more complex clone work this season and that's just because we're getting more comfortable with the technology and we're excited by getting to sort of further complicate things.''. And the introduction of a group of male clones will certainly increase the suspense. ``There definitely is a shift towards the Castor clones that we get to explore them a little bit more,'' she said. The fans of the show, dubbed the ``Clone Club'' have a lot to look forward to when the show premieres on Saturday the 18th, and Maslany is blown away by the response to the series so far. ``We've always been really humbled and really inspired by our fans and by their dedication to the show and their knowledge of the show, and just how it changes their own lives. It's incredible.''. 2. ``Turn : Washington's Spies,'' 9 p.m. ET, Monday, AMC. The series about spies in the early days of the Revolutionary War returns with a new subtitle, ``Washington's Spies,'' and a new Monday night time slot. Series star Jamie Bell told CNN what we can expect in the second season. ``This year we have a lot more battles ; we have the journey of -LSB- George -RSB- Washington and we're getting under his skin a little bit as well. We also introduce new characters like Benedict Arnold, a very infamous character in American history.''. Bell hopes the series might bring more recognition to the Culper spy ring and everything it did. ``I think there should be a monument to all of the Culper ring somewhere. I was amazed that there is nothing -LSB- in Washington -RSB- about these people who did something extraordinary.''. 3. ``Game of Thrones,'' 9 p.m. ET, Sunday, HBO. The world of Westeros returns for a fifth season in one of the biggest season premieres of the year. Click here for more on what to expect. 4. ``Justified,'' 10 p.m. ET, Tuesday, FX. Timothy Olyphant's tour de force performance as Raylan Givens comes to an end Tuesday night, as the modern-day Western airs its season finale. We'll have to see how his final showdown with Boyd Crowder goes. 5. ``Veep,'' 10:30 ET, Sunday, HBO. Hugh Laurie joins the cast and Julia Louis-Dreyfus is now the president of the United States on HBO's hit comedy. 6. ``Nurse Jackie,'' 9 p.m. ET, Sunday, Showtime. The final season of Showtime's long-running melodrama begins.
( Billboard ) From Channing Tatum twerking for Jennifer Lopez to host Amy Schumer's archery fail, there were plenty of highlights and misfires from the 2015 MTV Movie Awards. 2015 MTV Movie Awards : See the full winners list. Here are the jokes, performances and moments that hit the target and the ones and missed it. Best Moments. Amy Schumer's opener : From a ``Boyhood'' / HPV joke to nearly flashing J.K. Simmons to her run-in with a cancer support group, Schumer's opening video segment was as reliably hilarious and inventive as her Comedy Central show ( which can't come back on TV soon enough ). Plus, her monologue killed : ``Half of you know who I am, half of you think I'm Meghan Trainor.''. Channing Tatum doing his thing : When the cast of ``Magic Mike XXL'' presented J.Lo with the Scared As Shit Performance award, she asked them exactly what we were all thinking : ``Why aren't you dancing ?'' Channing Tatum obliged, popping a twerk ( in a suit ) onstage in front of Lopez. ``Your turn,'' he told her. Sadly, she did not oblige. Amy Schumer takes on Hillary Clinton, Zayn Malik and more in monologue. Rebel Wilson's censored moment : Introducing an exclusive clip from ``Pitch Perfect 2'' as an ``exclusive clit'' was easily the funniest non-Schumer joke of the entire night. Even her castmates seemed shocked when she slipped it in. Fall Out Boy meets Fetty Wap : ``Centuries'' didn't need a rap breakdown, nor did ``Trap Queen'' need a punk-rock edge. But did it sound killer on both counts ? Hell yeah. Fetty with an electric guitar is something that needs to happen again. Charli XCX, Ty Dolla $ ign & Tinashe : There's a reason Charli gets invited to every MTV awards show : She attacks a pop song with the abandon of a rock'n' roll tidal wave. ``Drop That Kitty'' was Tinashe's time to shine, though. It's only a shame she got about 30 seconds to command the stage. Kiss Cam : Amy Schumer sensuously kissing Amber Rose just before a commercial break ? Well played, Amy. Kevin Hart's Comedic Genius Award : While Kimmel's intro jokes were a little one-note ( we get it, Kevin is short ), it was pretty adorable that Hart brought his kids onstage to accept his Golden Popcorn. As his son held it, you realized the award was bigger than the kid's head. MTV Movie Awards : See all the photos. Robert Downey Jr. accepting Generation Award : His speech was fine ( kudos for the ``keep your nose clean'' quip ), but his Avengers castmates taking a knee while he accepted his award was just perfect. Misfires. Archery fail : Schumer's bow-and-arrow misfire was a literal misfire. It wasn't a big deal, but the fact that it ruined an entire gag ( with Jimmy Kimmel pretending to get shot in the chest ) was naturally awkward. Of course, Schumer poked fun at herself almost immediately. ``Gone Girl'' joke : ``How good was Gone Girl ? It's the story of what one crazed white woman -- or every Latina -- does when a man cheats on them,'' Schumer joked. It wasn't awful, just kinda off. MTV immediately cut to J.Lo laughing like ``ummm, OK'' -- which is an accurate response. Vin Diesel sings `Furious 7' Paul Walker tribute song at MTV Movie Awards. Shailene Woodley speech : Woodley definitely marches to the beat of her own drum, which is part of her appeal. But halfway through her Trailblazer award acceptance speech, the neo-hippie charm wore off, leaving most people wondering what she was trying to say. One of those wondering where she was going was Woodley herself, who wrapped up her speech by admitting it had totally gotten away from her. Zac Efron and Dave Franco : Was the punchline for their whole shtick really just Efron grabbing Franco's balls ? Yes. Apparently, a man touching another man's junk is still comedy gold in 2015. Dwayne Johnson : The Rock shouting into the camera about 2014's movie highlights was totally unnecessary. At this point, MTV has to realize we've heard jokes about ``American Sniper'', ``Gone Girl'', ``Boyhood'' and ``Whiplash'' for almost a year now, and we're all ready to move on. But God Bless The Rock for giving it his all.
( CNN ) Justice may be blind, but it's easy to see that Marvel's ``Daredevil'' is already a hit with fans. The pitch-black-dark new series streamed its entire first season on Netflix on Friday morning, and the early word is quite good. Charlie Cox is perfectly cast as blind attorney Matt Murdock, whose nights are consumed with cleaning up the New York neighborhood of Hell's Kitchen while dressed in a black ninjaesque outfit. As the season unfolds, he heads toward a confrontation with Vincent D'Onofrio's Wilson Fisk, a.k.a. the Kingpin. Two love interests enter Murdock's life in the form of Karen Page ( Deborah Ann Woll ) and Claire Temple ( Rosario Dawson ). Oh, and there's that red suit. So what do critics think ? Quite a lot, with 94 % giving it positive reviews on Rotten Tomatoes. ``Marvel's `Daredevil,' Netflix's latest offering, is a well-scripted, beautifully acted superhero saga that is surprisingly impressive,'' said the Philadelphia Inquirer's Tirdad Derakhshani. ``The series stays incredibly faithful to Daredevil's pulp roots and does something delightfully unexpected -- trust its fans enough to spare us a long, drawn-out origin story,'' said Sadie Gennis of TV Guide. Early risers on Twitter praised the show as well, especially Cox's performance, as well as a drawn-out, well-choreographed fight scene in episode 2. Does Netflix have a ``House of Cards'' - like hit on its hands ? Time will tell.
( HLNtv ) Actress Alyssa Milano had some angry tweets for Heathrow Airport authorities Thursday morning after workers there allegedly confiscated breast milk she'd pumped for her daughter while she was on a plane. Milano, who was on a trip with her husband that she described in an earlier tweet as a ``romantic getaway,'' was furious. According to the Heathrow Airport guidelines on its website regarding baby food and/or milk, the airport asks that travelers carry only what they need for the flight. A blogger mom apparently experienced a similar issue at the airport in 2011 when her pumped milk was also confiscated. Per the UK Department of Transport, travelers can carry breast milk through security and are allowed quantities larger than 100ml if necessary. Milano, who has long been an outspoken advocate of breastfeeding, said the cooler the milk was in was also confiscated. See the original story at HLNtv.com.
( CNN ) Cynthia Lennon, who married John Lennon when he was a struggling musician and was there when he rose to fame with the Beatles, died Wednesday, according to a post on the website of her son, Julian. She was 75. ``Cynthia Lennon passed away today at her home in Mallorca, Spain, following a short but brave battle with cancer. Her son Julian Lennon was at her bedside throughout,'' his website says. ``The family are thankful for your prayers. Please respect their privacy at this difficult time.''. John and Cynthia Lennon were married for six years, from 1962 to 1968. The pair met at art school, where Cynthia studied to be an illustrator and John practiced painting -- in between concerts with a band that would become the Beatles. ``When we were at art college, I think he was more interested in the music than he was in the art,'' she told ClassicBands.com. Cynthia Lennon, born Cynthia Powell in 1939, was a stabilizing force for the young John, who lost his mother when he was a teenager and was raised by his Aunt Mimi. ``John was always insecure,'' she said in a 2005 interview, having lost his mother at a young age. But his humor -- and his wildness -- were attractive, she told ClassicBands.com. ``He was a rebel. He was outrageous. That was something I hadn't experienced before the age that I was, which was about 16 or 17. I'd had quite a normal, straightforward life,'' she said. ``I was just instantly attracted to him.''. The two married in 1962, just as the Beatles were making their rise. Their son, Julian, was born April 8, 1963. Lennon's sometimes-brittle personality and his overwhelming fame became a challenge for Cynthia. During her pregnancy, ``I was not supposed to be known or heard about. In the wisdom, or lack of wisdom, anything to do with somebody becoming famous, male, was not supposed to be married or have ( a ) girlfriend.''. She was threatened by fans and occasionally in danger of being left behind in the band's whirlwind ; when the group traveled to Bangor, Wales, to meet with the Maharishi in 1967, Cynthia was caught in a scrum and couldn't make the train in time. She was also there on the 1965 night George Harrison, Patti Boyd and Lennon were dosed with LSD -- an experience she disliked -- and traveled to India with the band in early 1968. The couple divorced in 1968, by which time John was seeing Yoko Ono. Cynthia Lennon married three more times after John and wrote two books about her marriage to the Beatle, ``A Twist of Lennon'' and ``John.'' She had no contact with the surviving members of the band until meeting up at the 2006 Las Vegas premiere of ``The Beatles Love.''. For all the difficulties and disappointments -- she described Julian, for whom she wrote ``John,'' as ``very scarred by life'' -- she acknowledged that the whirlwind could also be enthralling. ``The whole situation changed my life completely. God knows where I would've been ended up. I probably would've been a schoolteacher with about three or four children in a boring situation,'' she told ClassicBands.com. ``I've had the most amazing life, a wonderful life.''. She is survived by her son. Her fourth husband, Noel Charles, died in 2013. People we've lost in 2015. CNN's Josh Levs contributed to this story.
( CNN ) The first trailer for a documentary on the life and music of late British singer Amy Winehouse was released Thursday. The teaser for ``Amy : The Girl Behind the Name,'' set for UK release on July 3, features early footage of Winehouse talking about how her music career was born and where she believed she was headed. ``Singing has always been important to me, but I never thought, `I'll end up singing' or `I'll be a singer,''' Winehouse said. ``I felt like I had nothing new that was coming out at the time that really represented me or the way I felt, so, you know, I just started writing.''. Winehouse, known for her bluesy voice, bouffant hairdo and numerous tattoos, struggled publicly with drugs and alcohol during a career in which she recorded two albums and won six Grammys ( one posthumous ). She died from alcohol poisoning at the age of 27 on July 23, 2011. Her biggest hit, ``Rehab,'' chronicled the efforts of those around her to get her to submit to substance abuse treatment. ``Amy'' seeks to ``truly capture not just the great artist that she was, but also the funny and loving person that most people didn't get a chance to know,'' the filmmakers said on Facebook after announcing the film in 2013. Amy Winehouse documentary gets UK release date. The trailer conveys Winehouse's ambivalence about fame. ``I'm not a girl trying to be a star or trying to be anything other than a musician,'' she says. ``I don't think I'm gon na be at all famous,'' Winehouse tells an interviewer early in her career. ``I don't think I could handle it. I would probably go mad. Do you know what I mean ? I would go mad.''. A life cut short : Remembering the tragedy of Amy Winehouse. Unlike an earlier look at the singer's life, 2013's ``Fallen Star,'' the documentary has been endorsed by Winehouse's family. It will feature ``extensive unseen archive footage and previously unheard tracks,'' Deadline reported. The team behind the new film includes Asif Kapadia, director of the documentary ``Senna,'' on the life of Brazilian Formula 1 racer Ayrton Senna. The film won two BAFTA awards. ``The award-winning producers of Senna presented a vision that would look at Amy's story sensitively, honestly and without sensationalising her,'' the family statement said. ``We want this to be a tribute to her musical legacy.'''. A U.S. release date for the film has yet to be announced. CNN's Michael Pearson contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Ten years ago, a prosecutor in Centre County, Pennsylvania, took a day off work and vanished. Since then, the case of Ray Gricar has become one of the most intriguing and talked about missing persons stories in the country. Investigators have taken dives to the bottom of lakes, dug up a grave, chased more than 300 reported sightings from Arizona to North Carolina, dropped fliers over Slovenia, consulted a psychic, interviewed a member of the Hell's Angels and enlisted NASA technology. But no one has been able to find the veteran district attorney, who was 59 when he disappeared. When he went missing that Friday morning on April 15, 2005, he left behind a live-in girlfriend, a beautiful and successful daughter and a bank account that was supposed to fund a fast-approaching retirement. His red Mini Cooper was found abandoned near a bridge on the Susquehanna River about 55 miles away from his home. Months later his county-issued laptop and hard drive were found -- separately -- on the banks of the river, too damaged to read. As far as hard evidence goes, that's about all police have. The best lead they got was the sighting of a woman who has not been identified, and information that he had searched online for ways to destroy a hard drive. What's left is theory, speculation and a case that's been cold almost from the beginning. ``When a district attorney goes missing, you know, it's pretty big. It's going to catch people's attention. A lot of people don't have a large footprint. This guy had influential friends, he was well known,'' said Todd Matthews, director of communications and case management for the National Missing and Unidentified Person System, or NamUs. From the start, investigators have considered three possibilities : Gricar committed suicide, fell victim to foul play or deliberately walked away. The prevailing theories have been suicide or walk-away, especially since 2009, when a search of his Google history on his home computer found that someone had been searching ``how to fry a hard drive'' and ``water damage to a notebook computer.''. Gricar, a private and quiet man, was spotted with a woman who was not his girlfriend the day he went missing, and cigarette ash was found near his car, even though he was not a smoker. Friends and colleagues recalled him being distant in the weeks that led up to his disappearance, and recounted his fascination with another law enforcement official from Ohio who vanished in 1985. Matthews said that NamUs has compared Gricar's DNA to unidentified bodies nine times since the database became available in 2009, but so far, none has been a match. ``Even if he chose to make himself go missing, it sounds like something was terribly wrong that caused a drastic change in his life. There's something wrong if he's Googled how to fry a hard drive. Did he Google it ? Did someone else Google it ? Was he threatened ? Did he do something and is trying to cover it up ? It's not a normal thing to Google that.''. Matt Rickard, the former investigator who had been in charge of the investigation for several years, thinks that hard drive is the key to cracking the case. He said he's still holding out hope that someday technology will allow investigators to recover the damaged data. ``I think there is something out there. Whether it's evidence or a person, there's something that could lead us to something,'' he said. ``In all honesty, somebody destroyed the hard drive and there was a reason. We have very few solid leads and the biggest one could be contained on that hard drive.''. In 2011, when former Penn State defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky was arrested and charged with sexually abusing boys, it was revealed that it was Gricar who decided not to charge Sandusky when the first victim came forward in 1998. Gricar cited a lack of evidence. The intrigue already simmering in Gricar's case exploded. Sleuths desperately tried to find a link between the two cases, but investigators said there was no evidence that Gricar's disappearance had anything to do with Sandusky's crimes. But some have stuck to the homicide theory, suggesting that Gricar was an enemy of mob-like gangs in central Pennsylvania who were upset at his drug and corruption prosecutions. Cyril Wecht, a forensic pathologist, said he considered writing a book about Gricar, his ties to the Sandusky case, and whether it led to suicide. But, Wecht said, he abandoned the book idea when it became clear there was not enough evidence. ``I don't think it's a great stretch,'' Wecht said. ``He was one of those guys with a very strong sense of justice and professional discipline and in light of what evolved and came to be disclosed -- I speak as a forensic pathologist who's done so many suicides over the years and what can bring someone to that point. It's pure conjecture, not based on any factual knowledge.''. Plus, Wecht said, if it was a suicide, ``I don't understand how they never recovered the body.''. Bob Buehner, a former district attorney in Montour County, Pennsylvania, who was Gricar's friend, has never accepted a suicide or walk-away theory. He believes his colleague was killed. Buehner has doubts that, 10 years later, state police can recover from what he considers a bungled start to the case. ``It didn't seem like there was any overall game plan that made sense in terms of a systematic investigation,'' Buehner said. ``One of the things I'd asked them to do from the first couple weeks is now impossible to do -- to do a hotel-motel canvas looking for the mystery woman seen with Ray and then match the names with photo IDs which police have access to.''. Buehner said those records are now gone and his faith in finding Gricar is dwindling. ``I give it a 50-50 at best and only because I'm an optimist and I hope that's what will happen,'' he said. ``As a pessimist, maybe 1 in 10 that we'll find him.''. Despite fresh eyes on the investigation when it was handed over to state authorities last year, the mystery woman has not been found. ``Pennsylvania State Police continue to chase down new leads and take a fresh look at old leads and we continue to hold out hope that something will break out in this case,'' said Centre County's District Attorney Stacy Parks Miller. ``Everybody, regardless of what position they held, deserves this kind of attention. In any missing persons case, he's not the only one, we feel discouraged when we can't answer the questions for the family, but it doesn't change our dedication to the case.''. The case has gotten significant attention on the national level, appearing on several true-crime television shows, including HLN's ``Nancy Grace.'' So it was strange to many in Pennsylvania that for years a case with such a high profile would be handled by the tiny Bellefonte Police Department, where one investigator was assigned to juggle Gricar's case along with several more. In 2014, the state police took over, but that was nine years after Gricar went missing and two years after he had been declared legally dead. Sources close to the investigation told CNN the case, as state police received it, was disorganized and porous. Evidence had been compromised in storage. Reports were missing. Evidence had been collecting dust in file cabinets. There was never a forensic audit of his finances. Today, some of Gricar's friends believe the case is damaged beyond repair. They have lost faith that there will ever be any answers. When asked if she thought things might change when state police got the case, Barbara Gray, his ex-wife and the mother of his daughter Lara, said no. ``The evidence is the same,'' she said. Lara declined to comment, and investigators said they've had trouble reaching her. ``There is always a remote possibility that we might never have an answer,'' said Lt. James Emigh, who leads the investigation for the Pennsylvania State Police after inheriting it last year. ``We still hold out hope, and the state police will however continue to diligently follow up every possible lead and attempt to bring closure to the family and friends of Ray.''
( CNN ) Two years ago, the storied Boston Marathon ended in terror and altered the lives of runners, spectators and those who tried to come to their rescue. Just last week, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was convicted on 30 charges related to the bombings at the race and the dramatic violence that dragged out for days afterward. The jury will begin deliberating his punishment next week. The death penalty is on the table. Dzhokhar and his brother Tamerlan, who was killed in a shootout with police, were intent on terrorizing not just Bostonians, but all Americans, prosecutors said. But the Tsarnaevs were not on the minds of most people in Boston on Wednesday. The injured victims and those who lost their lives were spoken of with reverence in somber ceremonies. Relatives of 8-year-old Martin Richard, the attack's youngest victim, and the family of Krystle Campbell stood with Gov. Charlie Baker and Mayor Martin Walsh. Bagpipes played and banners whipped in the wind on Boylston Street, the Boston Globe reported. Boston University graduate student Lingzi Lu also was killed in one of the two horrific blasts that brought chaos to the competitors and spectators near the race's finish line on April 15, 2013. Who were the victims ?. Many bombing survivors were in the crowd for Wednesday's events, the newspaper said. They wore white, blue and yellow pins celebrating ``One Boston Day,'' which was created to recognize acts of valor and to encourage kindness among Bostonians. Many there and those who couldn't observe the day in person tweeted their respect and memories using #BostonDay. The marathon historically happens on a Monday. This year, runners will take on the 26.2 mile challenge April 20. ``I think today will always be a little emotional for me -- Marathon Monday is my favorite day of the year, and will continue to be, despite these tragedies,'' Boston resident Lindsey Berkowitz told CNN. ``I have so much respect and support for all of the survivors, and hope the city continues to come together on this day to embrace the strength and resilience of Boston, and the love we all have for this great city.''. Melanie DiVasta was working just a mile from the finish line in 2013 when one of the bombs set by the Tsarnaevs exploded. Several of her friends were waiting at the finish line. They were unharmed. ``It was just an overwhelming feeling of shock to start hearing about it and seeing images,'' DiVasta said. ``You couldn't help but cry and just ask why.''. What's next for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ?. CNN's Jareen Imam contributed to this report.
Boston ( CNN ) The Boston Marathon is traditionally an event in which people in and around the Massachusetts capital come together, celebrate and enjoy. But not in 2013, when three people died and over 200 were injured when a pair of bombs went off within 12 seconds of each other at the finish line. And not this year -- at least not if you're a member of the jury that convicted Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in the bombings. That's what federal Judge George A. O'Toole told jurors Tuesday, stressing the importance of avoiding anything that could be prejudicial in the trial's sentencing phase. That begins April 21, a day after this year's edition of the landmark race. ``Do not attend the Boston Marathon or any events or gatherings related to the anniversary or the current running of the Boston Marathon,'' O'Toole said in court. The judge spoke for less than 10 minutes, and stressed the seriousness of his warnings. The first phase of Tsarnaev's trial began March 4, after which federal prosecutors called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. Timeline of the bombings, manhunt and aftermath. Tsarnaev's lawyers never disputed that their client was at the scene of the bombings and part of the days-long mayhem that followed. Tsarnaev lawyer Judy Clarke acknowledged in opening arguments that : ``It was him.'' But Clarke argued that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev only took part in the plot under the influence of his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died after the bombings, but before his brother was captured in a boat parked in a Watertown backyard,. That argument wasn't enough to sway the jury, though. Rather, they convicted Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on all 30 counts he faced -- including using weapons of mass destruction, bombing a place of public use, conspiracy and aiding and abetting. A look at all of the charges. The only question now, short of a successful appeal of that verdict, is what price he'll now pay. The maximum penalty for several of the charges is death. Talking to the jury on Tuesday, O'Toole predicted that the sentencing phase will last four weeks before cautioning that forecasting a specific timetable is less reliable than guessing the weather. The plan is for the court to be in session for four days a week, as long as the process takes. Until then, O'Toole told the jurors, ``Please put the case out of your minds. Enjoy the warm weather.''. What's next for Tsarnaev ?. CNN's Ann O'Neill reported from Boston. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, Alexandra Field, Aaron Cooper, Kevin Conlon, Jason Hanna and Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
Nairobi, Kenya ( CNN ) University of Nairobi students were terrified Sunday morning when they heard explosions -- caused by a faulty electrical cable -- and believed it was a terror attack, the school said. Students on the Kikuyu campus stampeded down the halls of the Kimberly dormitory, and some jumped from its fifth floor, the university said. Hundreds were injured and were taken to hospitals. One person died, according to the school. The confusion and panic came less than two weeks after Al-Shabaab slaughtered 147 people at a college in Garissa, Kenya. Kenyan teachers and students have said they fear being targeted by the Somalia-based terrorists. On Sunday, as many as 108 students from the University of Nairobi were admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital. Among them, at least 63 students have been discharged, and at least four are slated for surgery, the school said. Almost all of the 54 students being treated at PCEA Kikuyu Hospital have been released, the university said. Kenya Power authorities and its CEO are at the school and looking into the electrical issue. Normal power supply will resume after repairs, the university said. ``As we mourn the unfortunate loss of the departed student, we are also praying for the quick recovery of those who were injured,'' said Vice Chancellor Peter M.F. Mbithi in a statement. He called on the students, staff and public to remain calm. CNN's Lillian Leposo reported from Nairobi and Ashley Fantz wrote this story in Atlanta.
Tokyo ( CNN ) The operator of the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant has given up trying to recover a robotic probe after it stopped moving inside one of the reactors. Tokyo Electric Power Company ( TEPCO ) deployed the remote-controlled robot on Friday inside one of the damaged reactors that had suffered a meltdown following a devastating earthquake and tsunami in 2011. It was the first time the probe had been used. The robot, set out to collect data on radiation levels and investigate the spread of debris, stalled after moving about 10 meters, according to a statement released by TEPCO. A newly released report and footage from the robot shows that a fallen object had blocked its path and left it stranded. TEPCO decided to cut off the cable connected to the device Sunday as it had already covered two-thirds of the originally planned route. It managed to collect data on radiation levels in 14 of the 18 targeted locations. Four years after the devastating nuclear crisis, the radiation levels inside the three damaged reactors are still extremely high and remain unsafe for people to enter. Decommissioning work is estimated to cost $ 50 billion and will take years to complete. TEPCO called the robotic probe an ``unprecedented'' experiment. CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki reported from Tokyo, Japan and Naomi Ng wrote from Hong Kong.
( CNN ) The Tulsa County reserve deputy who fatally shot a man instead of using his Taser turned himself in to authorities Tuesday at the Tulsa County Jail. Video shows Reserve Deputy Robert Bates announcing he is going to deploy his Taser after an undercover weapons sting on April 2 but then shooting Eric Courtney Harris in the back with a handgun. Bates was charged with second-degree manslaughter Monday. He surrendered Tuesday morning, accompanied by his attorney, Clark Brewster, and immediately posted bail of $ 25,000. As he exited the jailhouse, Bates paused in front of television cameras for a moment but did not speak. His attorney reiterated that he believes the charge against his client is unwarranted. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office says a sting operation caught Harris illegally selling a gun. Harris ran when officers came in for the arrest. Authorities say Bates thought he pulled out his Taser but ``inadvertently'' fired his gun. Harris' brother, Andre Harris, told CNN that he is pleased District Attorney Steve Kunzweiler pressed charges. In his opinion, however, no type of force should have been used in the arrest of his brother. Watching the video of the shooting, Andre Harris said he can see that three or more officers were already on top of his brother. That manpower should have been enough to arrest him, he said. ``It was a situation where I didn't necessarily think that a Taser should even be used,'' Andre Harris said. Scott Wood, another Bates' attorney, has said the shooting was an ``excusable homicide.''. Investigators' efforts to defend Bates and the other deputies involved in the arrest have sparked a mounting chorus of criticism online. Harris' relatives are demanding an independent investigation of what they call unjustified brutality. They're also questioning why the 73-year-old Bates -- the CEO of an insurance company who volunteers as a certified reserve deputy -- was on the scene in such a sensitive and high-risk sting operation. Daniel Smolen, an attorney representing the Harris family, said Bates paid big money to play a cop in his spare time. Bates, who was a police officer for a year in the 1960s, had been a reserve deputy since 2008, with 300 hours of training and 1,100 hours of community policing experience, according to the sheriff's office. He was also a frequent contributor to the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office, including $ 2,500 to the re-election of Sheriff Stanley Glanz. The sheriff's office has said that Bates had law enforcement certification, but Smolen said he has not seen any field training records. ``We're holding up all right at this point,'' Andre Harris said. ``We're putting our faith in God that justice will be served, and we can get some closure in this situation.''. How easy is it to confuse a gun for a Taser ?. In a statement released Tuesday, Eric Harris' family members said they know there are many good deputies working in Tulsa County. ``However, the treatment of Eric of April 2 clearly shows that there is a deep-seated problem within the TCSO,'' the statement said. The family said that the sheriff has not apologized and that the department has not shown remorse or indication it will change its policies. CNN's Jason Morris and Ed Lavandera contributed to this report.
Hong Kong ( CNN ) There's a booming black market in Hong Kong, but it's not for fake Apple Watches, or the iPhone. Instead, people are going crazy for tins of butter cookies. Tourists and locals line up around the block for several hours just to get their hands on Jenny's cookies -- at $ 9 a tin. Its popularity has spurred bakeries to make and sell knockoffs, and the original store has signs warning against buying `fake' Jenny's cookies. The tiny shop, located in Tsim Sha Tsui, one of the city's main shopping districts, is swarming with people handing over wads of cash for the ``little bear cookies'' as they are known across Asia. People are even hired to stand in line to buy the goods and are later resold at a 70 % mark-up yards away, something the bakery also tries to discourage. A few meters away from the long cookie line, old ladies hold up paper signs advertising the cookies for sale. But when they see cameras approaching, they scurry away, only to reappear on another street corner. The frenzy in Hong Kong over the buttery treats is by no means an isolated example. In other parts of the world, food mania has erupted, swiftly winning people's hearts and stomachs, only to fizzle out in a few months. From cronuts to ramen burgers, here are some foods that people around the world have spent hours of their lives waiting for. Were they worth it ?
Baghdad, Iraq ( CNN ) Hundreds of additional Iraqi troops are being sent to reinforce colleagues who are trying to fend off ISIS' attempt to overrun Iraq's largest oil refinery, a key paramilitary force said Tuesday. The reinforcements come four days after ISIS began attacking northern Iraq's Baiji oil refinery, a key strategic resource that has long been a target because the facility refines much of the fuel used by Iraqis domestically. The additional troops came from Camp Speicher, a fortified Iraqi base near the city of Tikrit, according to the media office of the Hasd Al-Shaabi militia. The reinforcements include two federal police regiments, an Iraqi military quick reaction force battalion and a regiment from Hasd Al-Shaabi, which is a predominantly Shia militia that worked with the Iraqi military as well as Sunni fighters to liberate Tikrit from ISIS about two weeks ago. ISIS launched an assault on the Baiji oil refinery late Saturday. By Sunday, ISIS said its fighters were inside the refinery and controlled several buildings, but Iraqi government security officials denied that claim and insisted that Iraqi forces remained in full control. The Hasd Al-Shaabi media office said Tuesday that Iraqi troops already at the refinery were holding their ground, preparing to push ISIS out of the facility entirely. The attack could have a significant effect if it damages oil fields or machinery. The refinery is 40 kilometers ( 25 miles ) from Tikrit. CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali reported from Baghdad. CNN's Jason Hanna wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Arwa Damon and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) ISIS is a problem that is ``off the charts historically'' and has sent the United States into ``uncharted territory'' when it comes to putting down the terror group, the Obama administration's point man in the fight recently told CNN. The comments, which Brett McGurk made in an exclusive interview, were some of the administration's strongest to date in describing the challenge the United States and its allies face in battling ISIS. ``This is a problem that is off the charts historically,'' he said, referring to the more than 20,000 foreign fighters who have gone into Syria. ``Just put that into perspective : It's about twice the number that went into Afghanistan in the 1980s over a 10-year period to fight the Soviet Union, and those came really from only a handful of countries.''. He concluded, ``We're in unchartered territory here.''. McGurk just returned from an urgent summit of coalition nations held in Jordan. Last week, Canada became the latest nation to conduct airstrikes against ISIS over Syria. The United States now lists 62 countries in the coalition. As the U.S.-led coalition has focused attention on Iraq and Syria, ISIS has expanded its reach to Libya, Egypt and Yemen, often with existing extremist groups pledging allegiance to the militants. McGurk did not rule out expanding U.S. military action beyond Iraq and Syria to combat the increasing regional threat. ``We have a lot of tools to protect ourselves and our national security interests, some of which are military tools,'' he said. ``Of course we apply those tools when the president determines and our chain of command makes the recommendation that that is the right thing to do.''. The United States has also been stepping up efforts to involve Sunni groups in the fight against ISIS. To date, that involvement has been extremely limited as Sunni tribes see Shiite militias, many with horrendous human rights records, take the lead. But McGurk said that Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi is making progress getting Sunni tribes to support a planned Iraqi offensive against ISIS in Anbar province in the coming weeks. He stressed the importance of working with al-Abadi, noting that the Iraqi leader was in Anbar province last week handing out more than 1,000 AK-47s to tribal fighters who are going to join the Iraqi security forces. ``We are helping to enable and train ( them ) as they begin to go on the offensive over the coming weeks and months in Anbar,'' McGurk said. ``They put out this very perverse, twisted vision, and it's very attractive to a lot of young men around the world,'' he acknowledged. ``But in fact, what the foreign fighters are finding in Syria and Iraq is that they're more likely to get killed in Iraq and Syria, and in fact, instead of getting a slave bride as ISIS leaders promise them, they're more likely to get killed by a female Peshmerga fighter in the streets of Kobani.''. That bottom line, he assessed, could turn the tide : ``The foreign fighters are learning the reality of what it's like when they go to join this twisted version of a caliphate, and I think we're going to see those networks begin to dry up.''
( CNN ) More than 500 Houthi rebels have been killed since the start of Saudi-led military operations against Yemeni Shia fighters, a Saudi Defense Ministry official said Saturday, according to the state-run Saudi Press Agency. A Saudi general said Saturday the nine-nation coalition has undertaken 1,200 airstrikes since they began on March 26. Gen. Ahmed Asiri added that the raids aim to keep the rebels from moving toward southern Yemen, according to the SPA. Clashes took place Friday near the Saudi-Yemeni border, in the Najran region. Saudi forces responded to mortar rounds fired by Houthis on a Saudi border site. Three Saudi military officers were killed and two others were wounded in the shelling, a defense official said, according to SPA. A Saudi source also confirmed to CNN's Nic Robertson that three Saudi soldiers were killed in the shelling. The Yemeni Health Ministry on Saturday said 385 civilians have been killed and 342 others have been wounded. The World Health Organization has put higher figure on both tolls -- 648 killed and 2,191 wounded -- but includes militant casualties in the totals. Yemen has been descending into chaos in the weeks since Houthi rebels -- minority Shiites who have long complained of being marginalized in the majority Sunni country -- forced Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January. And even before the crisis escalated with the Saudi airstrikes, most of the 25 million people in Yemen required humanitarian assistance to meet their most basic needs, the United Nations said Friday. CNN's Pierre Meilhan and Mohammed Tawfeeq contributed to this report.
Obock, Djibouti ( CNN ) Amina Ali Qassim is sitting with her youngest grandchild on her lap, wiping away tears with her headscarf. Only a few months old, this is the baby girl whose ears she desperately tried to cover the night the aerial bombardment started. She lay awake, she says, in a village mosque on the Yemeni island of Birim, counting explosions as the baby cried. It could have been worse though. They could have still been in their house when the first missile landed. ``Our neighbor shouted to my husband `you have to leave, they're coming.' And we just ran. As soon as we left the house, the first missile fell right by it and then a second on it. It burned everything to the ground,'' Qassim tells us. Qassim and her family fled Birim at first light, piling in with three other families. Twenty-five of them squeezed into one boat setting sail through the Bab al-Mandab Strait to Djibouti. Bab al-Mandab is one of the busiest waterways in the world, a thoroughfare for oil tankers and cargo ships. It's now being crossed by desperate Yemenis in rickety fishing boats seeking refuge from the conflict threatening to engulf their country. Qassim's son Mohamed describes the families' journey across this part of the Red Sea as ``a window into hell.''. ``The women were violently ill,'' he tells us. ``It was a catastrophe.''. It took them five hours to cross into the north of Djibouti, where the government is providing the refugees with temporary shelter in this unfinished orphanage here in Obock. And the U.N. says thousands more refugees are expected. Qassim and her family will soon have to move to the plastic tents that have been prepared for them on the dusty outskirts of the town, taking with them only the collection of plastic mats and pots neatly stacked in the corner. It's all that remains of everything they once owned. Her two daughters are trapped back in Yemen, in Taiz. She hasn't been able to reach them and the worry she says is almost unbearable. I ask her how many days it was after the Saudi aerial bombardment began that they left. She looks at me and laughs, ``How many days would you have stayed ?''. Then she goes quiet, looking down at the granddaughter in her lap. Finally she tells me, ``I thought she would never be able to stop screaming. That the fear would stay with her forever.''. ``May God please have mercy on Yemen.''
Kano, Nigeria ( CNN ) An explosion late Thursday outside a bus station in the northeast Nigerian city of Gombe killed at least five people and injured more than a dozen others, witnesses said. The explosion outside the Bauchi Motor Park happened around 8:30 p.m. after a woman left her explosives-laden handbag near a bus filling up with passengers. The bus was heading to the central Nigerian city of Jos, 125 kilometers away. ``There has been an explosion just outside the motor park and five people have been killed while more than 12 others have been seriously injured,'' said Adamu Saidu, an employee at the bus station. ``Some of the injured have had their limbs blown off and one of them has had his eye gouged out,'' said Saidu, who was involved in the evacuation of the victims to a hospital. The woman pretended to be going to Jos and lingered around the bus, which was waiting to fill up with passengers, according to Falalu Tasiu, a grocer near the bus station. ``The woman kept talking on the phone and dropped her bag beside the bus, pretending to be waiting for the bus to fill up,'' Tasiu said. ``She moved towards shops overlooking the bus station as if she was going to buy something and disappeared. Moments later the bag exploded and set the bus on fire, killing five people and inujuring around 15 others,'' Tasiu said. Although no one has claimed responsibility for the attack, Boko Haram Islamists have repeatedly carried out suicide and bombing attacks on bus stations and markets in Gombe and other northern cities, making the group the main suspect. Boko Haram has in recent months been under sustained pressure from sweeping offensives from a four-nation regional alliance of Nigeria, Chad, Niger and Cameroon. The regional offensives have considerably weakened Boko Haram's capabilities, which has prompted the Islamists to resort to attacks on soft targets such as bus stations, markets and schools. The explosion was the first attack since Nigeria held its presidential election at the weekend, which was won by opposition candidate Muhammadu Buhari, who vowed to crush Boko Haram when he assumes office in late May.
( CNN ) A former U.S. Army enlistee who posted on Facebook about ``the adrenaline rush'' of dying in jihad was arrested Friday and charged with trying to detonate a car bomb at Fort Riley military base in Kansas, authorities said. A second man, who allegedly knew about the bomb plot but didn't call authorities, was charged with failing to report a felony. John T. Booker Jr. of Topeka, an American citizen also known as Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, was taken into custody near Manhattan, Kansas, in a van that contained what he thought was a bomb, the criminal complaint said. The ``bomb'' had actually been put together by two confidential informants with nonexplosive materials, the complaint said. Fort Riley's security was never breached and no people were in danger, the U.S. Justice Department said in a press release. Booker enlisted in the Army last year and was due to ship out to basic training April 7, 2014, said Army spokesman Wayne Hall. The criminal complaint said the FBI questioned him March 24, 2014 about comments posted on Facebook, such as, ``Getting ready to be killed in jihad is a HUGE adrenaline rush. I am so nervous. NOT because I'm scare to die but I am eager to meet my lord.''. Booker waived his Miranda rights and told the agents he enlisted to commit an insider attack against American soldiers like Maj. Nidal Hassan had done at Fort Hood, Texas, the complaint said. Hassan opened fire in a building in November 2009, killing 13 people and wounding more than 30. His enlistment was terminated March 24, 2014, at the request of Army Criminal Investigation Command, Hall said. Booker began communicating with a confidential informant later in 2014, the complaint said, and often talked about his plans to engage in violent jihad in support of ISIS. He and the informant watched ISIS videos together, the complaint said, and Booker talked about how he wanted to go to Iraq and turn his weapon on American soldiers when ordered to shoot the enemy. On March 9, Booker said he believed ISIS wanted him to commit a truck bombing in the United States and thought a good target would be nearby Fort Riley, a large Army base that's home to the 1st Infantry Division, known as ``The Big Red One.''. Booker said ``that detonating a suicide bomb is his No. 1 aspiration because he couldn't be captured, all evidence would be destroyed and he would be guaranteed to hit his target,'' the criminal complaint said. He made a video with a Fort Riley airfield in the background and said ISIS was coming to kill American soldiers, both abroad and in the United States, the complaint said. Booker acquired components for a bomb and rented a storage locker to store the components, the complaint said. The plan was for confidential informants to build a bomb and for Booker to drive to Fort Riley and detonate it, the complaint said. But the bomb was built with ``inert'' parts and would never explode, the complaint said. On Friday, the informants and Booker drove to what Booker thought was a little-used utility gate near Fort Riley, the complaint said. While Booker was making final connections on the ``bomb,'' the FBI arrested him, the complaint said. He was charged with one count of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction, one count of attempting to damage property by means of an explosive and one count of attempting to provide material support to the Islamic State of Iraq, a designated foreign terrorist organization. If convicted, he could face life in prison. Alexander E. Blair, 28, of Topeka was taken into custody Friday and charged with failing to report a felony. The FBI said agents interviewed Blair after Booker's arrest. Blair said he shared some of Booker's views, knew of his plans to detonate a vehicle bomb at Fort Riley and loaned him money to rent storage space, according to the FBI's criminal complaint. He said he thought Booker would carry out his plan but did not contact authorities, the complaint said. If convicted, Blair faces a maximum of three years in prison.
Duhok, Iraqi Kurdistan ( CNN ) In the canvas expanse of the Shariya refugee camp, thousands of Yazidis live within hearing distance of one of Iraqi Kurdistan's frontlines with ISIS. The vast majority of the camp's occupants are from the town of Sinjar and fled the ISIS assault there back in August. But not everyone escaped. ISIS took thousands of Yazidis captive. Men faced a choice -- convert to Islam or be shot. But the Islamist militants separated the young women and girls to be sold as sex slaves. In its fourth edition of ``Dabiq,'' the ISIS online magazine, an article titled ``The revival of slavery before the hour,'' outlines the group's twisted justification and guidelines for the enslavement of the Yazidis. ``One should remember that enslaving the families of the kuffar ( infidels ) and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect of Shariah,'' the article reads. We're told that women who have just given birth or are breastfeeding are considered impure and can not be taken as sexual slaves -- but Hanan, 19, was neither of those things. ``They separated all of us,'' she says. ``They dragged us away by our hair. They took married women, young ones. The youngest with us was just 10. We were all crying. ``They said we are going to marry you off, you will forget your family.''. ISIS : Enslaving, having sex with `unbelieving' women, girls is OK. For the first week, Hanan was held with 50 others, regularly beaten and threatened with torture, and fed just a bowl of rice. The group was then taken to a three story building in Mosul she described as a sex slave warehouse, where hundreds of girls and women were held. ``They would line about 50 of us up at a time, in rows of 10. They would say don't move, don't cry or we will beat you. The men would come in and describe the kind of girl they wanted and then they would pick and choose as they pleased,'' she recalls. She was eventually chosen, part of a group of 25. From that group Hanan was separated into a smaller group of seven and taken into a house in a village. `Treated like cattle' : Yazidi women sold, raped, enslaved by ISIS. Two ISIS fighters guarded the door and ordered the girls to clean and bathe themselves. ``They brought in a Yazidi girl who had been with them for two months. She was wearing the black niqab. They said to us we are going to do to you what we did to her,'' Hanan says. ``The girl spoke to us in Kurdish and said they beat me, they cuffed me and raped me.''. Hanan and the others decided they had to try to escape. That night they crawled out the bedroom window. ``The fourth girl jumped out, I was the fifth. I crawled to the wall and was about to jump over it and then I saw their flashlight,'' she tells me. ``They caught the last two girls.''. They ran, and somehow evaded capture. Four hours later they were out of ISIS territory. ``If I just see someone with a beard I start shaking,'' Hanan says. Now physically free but mentally still captive, Hanan remains tormented -- like so many others, by what she has been through and what those still with ISIS are being forced to endure -- a fate worse than death. Fleeing ISIS -- A Yazidi family's tale.
Lagos, Nigeria ( CNN ) A day after winning Nigeria's presidency, Muhammadu Buhari told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that he plans to aggressively fight corruption that has long plagued Nigeria and go after the root of the nation's unrest. Buhari said he'll ``rapidly give attention'' to curbing violence in the northeast part of Nigeria, where the terrorist group Boko Haram operates. By cooperating with neighboring nations Chad, Cameroon and Niger, he said his administration is confident it will be able to thwart criminals and others contributing to Nigeria's instability. For the first time in Nigeria's history, the opposition defeated the ruling party in democratic elections. Buhari defeated incumbent Goodluck Jonathan by about 2 million votes, according to Nigeria's Independent National Electoral Commission. The win comes after a long history of military rule, coups and botched attempts at democracy in Africa's most populous nation. In an exclusive live interview from Abuja, Buhari told Amanpour he was not concerned about reconciling the nation after a divisive campaign. He said now that he has been elected he will turn his focus to Boko Haram and ``plug holes'' in the ``corruption infrastructure'' in the country. ``A new day and a new Nigeria are upon us,'' Buhari said after his win Tuesday. ``The victory is yours, and the glory is that of our nation.''. Earlier, Jonathan phoned Buhari to concede defeat. The outgoing president also offered a written statement to his nation. ``I thank all Nigerians once again for the great opportunity I was given to lead this country, and assure you that I will continue to do my best at the helm of national affairs until the end of my tenure,'' Jonathan said. ``I promised the country free and fair elections. I have kept my word.''. Buhari, 72, will be sworn in on May 29. He will take the helm at a critical time, as Nigeria grapples with Boko Haram, serious economic woes and corruption. This isn't Buhari's first time leading Nigeria, but it's his first time in nearly 30 years. A military coup brought Buhari to power in late 1983, closing a brief period of popular rule by Shehu Shagari. But Buhari himself was ousted by another military coup in August 1985. Read more : Who is Nigeria's Muhammadu Buhari ?. His presidential win is the result of his fourth attempt to lead the country since he was ousted 30 years ago. Buhari is a Sunni Muslim from Nigeria's poorer North, while Jonathan comes from a Christian and animist South that is rich with oil. Buhari praised voters for exercising their right peacefully. ``Your vote affirms that you believe Nigeria's future can be better than what it is today,'' he said in his statement. ``You voted for change, and now change has come.''. Buhari campaigned as a born-again democrat to allay fears about his strict military regime. He stressed that Nigeria's security needs to be the next government's focus. His campaign was also fiercely anti-corruption. He ran under the slogan of ``new broom,'' and his supporters were often pictured holding brooms in the lead-up to the vote. Despite years of democracy, analysts say, corruption has hindered Nigeria from building a stable economy. One of Buhari's biggest challenges will be Boko Haram, which has been terrorizing Nigeria as it tries to institute a strict version of Sharia law in the country. In the past few years, the terror group has bombed churches and mosques, killed hundreds of people and kidnapped more than 200 teenage girls from a boarding school. Even the presidential vote had to be postponed because of the radical militants. The election was originally scheduled for February 14, but was delayed six weeks because the military needed more time to secure areas controlled by Boko Haram. Yet the violence persisted. On Saturday, residents in the northeastern state of Gombe said at least 11 people were killed in attacks at polling stations, apparently by Boko Haram extremists. Jonathan had been criticized for not doing enough to combat Boko Haram. Before the election, African affairs analyst Ayo Johnson said the vote would come down to who could make Nigeria feel safe. ``Many Nigerians will not forget ( Buhari ) was a military leader during a dictatorship,'' Johnson said. ``Or maybe they will feel that they need a military leader to address fundamental problems such as terrorism.''. Boko Haram isn't the only obstacle facing the new president. The economy is another major issue. Nigeria overtook South Africa last year as the region's largest economy. Nigeria is one of Africa's largest oil producers and is a major supplier of crude oil to the United States. It also hosts many international oil companies and workers. But many complain that the country's vast wealth from oil exports doesn't trickle down to the average citizen. As many as 70 % of Nigerians live below the poverty line, surviving on less than a dollar a day. Christian Purefoy reported from Lagos ; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Stephanie Busari, Faith Karimi and Susannah Cullinane contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Hillary Clinton's campaign-in-waiting met on Saturday in its Brooklyn headquarters, a day before the former secretary of state officially announces her campaign for president, according to a Democrat who attended the meeting. Robby Mook, Clinton's soon-to-be campaign manager, distributed a ``values statement'' at the meeting that outlined what the campaign will stand for, what their goals are and how they plan to win -- something Clinton failed to do in 2008. The campaign's purpose, the document states, is ``to give every family, every small business, and every American a path to lasting prosperity by electing Hillary Clinton the next President of the United States.''. The document makes clear that the campaign will try to avoid mistakes that plagued Clinton's failed 2008 run. Many of the ``guiding principles'' in the memo mention issues that sunk Clinton's first campaign. The document, according to the source, includes the ideas from Mook, along with a wide array of Clinton's soon-to-be staffers and advisers. The memo maintains that the campaign must remain humble, disciplined and united, something voters in Iowa and others states have said Clinton did not do in 2008. ``This campaign is not about Hillary Clinton and not about us,'' reads the document that was obtained by CNN. In the section about the campaign's guiding principles, the document reads, ``We are humble : We take nothing for granted, we are never afraid to lose, we always outcompete and fight for every vote we can win. We know this campaign will be won on the ground, in states.''. It also calls on campaign staffers to remain ``disciplined'' and ``open to a diverse range of views.''. ``When we disagree, it's never personal. Once a decision is made, we execute it -- together,'' reads the memo. ``We know there will be tough days, but we will bounce back and get back to work.''. The document also appears to telegraph the name to Clinton's campaign : ``Hillary for America.''. Clinton is planning to launch her presidential candidacy on Sunday through a video message on social media, according to Democratic sources. Shortly after her announcement, Clinton will travel Iowa and New Hampshire, critical early caucus primary and caucus states.
West of Baghdad, Iraq ( CNN ) The call from Faleh Essawi, the deputy chief of the provincial council, who we were supposed to be meeting up with, came just as we were about to hit the bridge -- the only safe route from Baghdad to neighboring Anbar province. ``ISIS has taken the east of the city, it's not accessible,'' he says, sounding frantic, rapidly rattling off the neighborhoods and areas ISIS fighters had just stormed into. Moments later, we see the impact : An endless stream of humanity, shell shocked, and exhausted. Parents cradle babies in blankets, some struggle under the weight of their belongings, some carry small plastic bags, while others nothing but the children clutching at their hands. Cars are not permitted to cross this bridge across the Euphrates. The government feels that restricting vehicles will decrease the likelihood of explosives making their way into Iraq's capital. Those too young or too tired to walk pile into metal carts pushed by boys or young men, normally used to carry produce to markets. An elderly woman sits in one, a child in her arms, a worn down plastic doll in her hand. Many don't want to talk, at least not for long. What they just went through is too raw, too painful. One man we encounter describes how ISIS fighters commandeered his house. ``We heard clashes in the early morning, and we couldn't see the security forces anywhere,'' he recalls. ``We saw the ISIS fighters, they just came into the house, they didn't say a word. They just sent a sniper to the roof. I grabbed my children and ran.''. His wife bursts into tears, prompting him to apologize for not being able to talk anymore -- they just want to keep going. Another older woman, sitting in one of the carts surrounded by her grandchildren, starts sobbing the moment we approach her. ``They took our homes and kicked us out,'' she cries. Over the weekend ISIS moved into towns just to the north of Ramadi, which lies 68 miles ( 110km ) west of Baghdad, sending thousands fleeing on foot into the city. ISIS had already blocked off access from the south months ago, and the west was contested territory. The east, until now, was not just a relatively safe zone but the only viable entrance and exit. At a hospital in Amriyat al-Falluja, about a 15-minute drive away, a wounded local fighter winces in pain. He was shot by a sniper in Ramadi that morning as ISIS fighters advanced -- the bullet barely missed his heart. ``We had been warning we could see their movements,'' he tells us. ``But we just didn't have the force to hold them off. We didn't leave a single person we didn't call and ask for back up.''. But none came. Hours after our morning conversation we speak to Essawi again by phone. ``Security is collapsing in the city,'' he screams. ``This is what we warned Baghdad would happen. Where is Baghdad ? Where is al-Abadi ?. ``Just God knows if we will survive this,'' he says and hangs up. Amriyat al-Falluja regularly comes under attack from rockets and mortars from ISIS positions nearby. The hospital's façade is scarred by shrapnel. The wards are full of people injured during these attacks. Fifteen-year-old Mustafa Ahmed has bandages on his neck, leg, and other parts of his body. ``A mortar fell on our street, one of my neighbors was wounded,'' he explains. ``We went out to help him and the second one fell on us.''. His friend died, he says. In the next room Amal Ahmed speaks softly. ``I was in the garden and a rocket hit and the shrapnel sliced me open,'' she says, as tears roll down her face. ``Something fell out of me and I grabbed it and I put it back in and I lay down.''. She starts to cry harder. Her husband was killed by U.S. forces in Fallujah -- another city in Anbar -- in 2003. Her children have all moved away except her youngest, who broke his arm in the same attack. ``When I see the situation I don't have hope, it's just getting worse.''. A few moments later, we hear two massive explosions from another of the hospital's buildings. They think it's an ISIS rocket or mortar attack so we take cover along with the Iraqi forces we are with in the hallway, away from the windows. More explosions go off in the distance. Then another actually shakes our building. ``Anyone want tea ?'' one of the policemen with us asks, laughing as he pours. ``This happens all the time, we're used to it.''. The police chief, Major Aref al-Janabi, radios to his men to respond. Al-Janabi, like so many others, is frustrated with the lack of support from Baghdad. Earlier, he had taken us to the front lines, a long berm that stretches along the northern and western parts of the town that is dotted with fighting positions. He says he regularly provides the joint command center with coordinates for ISIS positions, but so far there have been no significant air strikes or reinforcements. More explosions follow in the distance. We're quickly moved out and leave the town, heading back towards the bridge and the long, snaking lines of refugees. An ambulance passes us, trying to force its way through the crowds. The swell of people fleeing has grown considerably in the last hours -- not surprising given Essawi's dire assessment and warning. ``Ramadi is under siege from all sides,'' he'd told us earlier, anger mixed with an air of resignation. ``I consider the city to have fallen.''. He claimed that 150,000 have fled, scoffing at statements from Iraqi officials in Baghdad that reinforcements have been sent to Ramadi. He has yet to see them.
( CNN ) It was a typical practice day for the Washington University of rowing team, but then danger came from beneath. The scene was Creve Coeur Lake outside of St. Louis early Friday morning. The team's boat got near the dock, when suddenly a swarm of Asian carp emerged from the water and went on the attack, some even going into the boat. Team member Devin Patel described the moment of terror : ``The fish was flopping on my legs. It was so slippery that I couldn't get a grip on it.''. Patel screamed at teammate Yoni David, ``Yoni, get it off me !''. Thankfully, no rowers were injured during the ordeal, but the strong smell of fish lingered in the moments afterward. Watch iReporter Benjamin Rosenbaum's video above.
( CNN ) The White House insists it doesn't need congressional approval for the Iran nuclear deal announced this month. But while historical precedent suggests the President might indeed have the authority to move forward without Congress, the Obama administration should probably learn another lesson from history : Getting Congress' signature might be worth the effort. True, the fight for congressional approval would be politically bruising and consume a huge amount of energy. But it would still be a mistake to move forward with the deal as an executive-based agreement rather than obtaining the consent of the legislative branch -- a diplomatic breakthrough of this magnitude would be far more enduring with the imprimatur of Congress. The President and his advisers have avoided using the term ``treaty,'' instead explaining that it would be a ``nonbinding agreement.'' According to Secretary of State John Kerry : ``We've been very clear from the beginning. We're not negotiating a `legally binding plan.' We're negotiating a plan that will have in it a capacity for enforcement.'' On ``Meet the Press,'' Kerry said, ``What we're looking for is not to have Congress interfere with our ability, inappropriately, by stepping on the prerogatives of the executive department of the President.''. There is a big legal argument that will play out over these definitional issues, with the potential for court challenges. But outside of the legal debate, there are also significant political questions, and those are a different beast altogether. For a start, there is growing pressure on Capitol Hill -- from members of both parties -- to pass legislation that would give Congress the right to review the deal and make a decision about lifting sanctions. On Tuesday, a deal was reached on legislation proposed by Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker that would require President Barack Obama to submit the final deal to Congress, giving it 52 days to review and approve the agreement. Corker told MSNBC on Tuesday that negotiators had reached a ``bipartisan agreement that keeps the congressional review process absolutely intact, full of integrity.''. What's in the Iran bill and why all the fuss ?. There is good reason for Obama to avoid calling this a treaty. After all, given the contentious political environment on Capitol Hill, where legislators struggle to pass even a routine budget, the notion that they would move on a treaty of this importance seems dubious at best. But there is also a history of Congress causing significant trouble for important international treaties. In the late 1970s, for example, President Jimmy Carter tried to obtain consent for the SALT II treaties, but conservatives argued the agreement was evidence that Carter was weak on defense. Carter pushed for the treaties as essential to international peace but to no avail. After Iranians took American hostages and the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, the treaties died in the Senate. Yet there are other examples where even in a contentious congressional environment, presidents successfully pushed for the ratification of treaties that they knew would cost them important political capital, and even once the White House exited the struggle bruised and battered, the historic treaties endured. Top GOP, Dem senators say Iran compromise reached. This was the case with another treaty that Carter asked the Senate to ratify : the Panama Canal Treaties of 1978. Carter decided that turning authority of the canal over to Panama was essential to regional peace and stability. He knew this would be tough sell, and Tennessee Republican Howard Baker for his part predicted he wouldn't even get 20 votes as conservative groups coordinated their campaign through the Committee to Save the Panama Canal and the Emergency Coalition to Save the Panama Canal. Indeed, they dispatched speakers to warn that the deal would give the Soviets a foothold in the region. However, Carter countered aggressively, both on a personal level -- helping secure the vote of Sen. Richard Stone of Florida by sending a personal letter to the senator, dispatching experts to Florida to answer the questions of constituents and addressing audiences through state-of-the-art telephone hookups. In the end, the Senate ratified the treaties by one vote more than the required two-thirds majority, although Carter also paid a political price after energizing the right during the fight. President Ronald Reagan faced a similar challenge. Toward the end of his presidency, he reached a historic breakthrough on intercontinental ballistic missiles with the Soviet Union. Yet despite excitement in the White House and across the nation about Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's visit to Washington in December 1987, many conservatives blasted the decision, arguing that Reagan had betrayed the conservative cause. During a meeting at the White House, eight Republican senators who opposed the treaty shared their feelings with Reagan. Sen. Malcolm Wallop of Wyoming, one of Reagan's closest allies, said : ``The Soviets have broken most every treaty they have ever signed.. How do we assure compliance with the new treaty ?'' Right-wing organizations, meanwhile, compared Reagan with Neville Chamberlain. Reagan responded with an aggressive effort to halt their rebellion. In a hearing on the treaty, Secretary of State George Shultz attacked North Carolina Republican Jesse Helms, who had accused Reagan of ``confusion, misstatements and.. even misrepresentation.'' He met with Republicans, spoke with reporters and lobbied the public to endorse the deal. Despite their protests, most Republicans eventually came around. On May 27, 1988, the Senate ratified the treaty 93-5. Helms, one of the few to vote against the treaty, admitted they were ``licked.'' And the treaty, which marked the beginning of the end for the Cold War, has endured. The reality is that the signature of Congress is still worth a lot in American politics -- the ratification process brings legitimacy to a major and controversial agreement and makes it much more difficult for opponents to attack in the future as some power grab by a president. Congressional support also makes the strength of the treaty greater in the eyes of leaders overseas. All this will be true with Iran, especially as many members of Obama's own party are leery about the agreement. Ultimately, the President probably has the right to go his own way with this, and his frustration with Congress might create strong incentives for doing so. But in the long term, persuading and pressuring a sufficient number of legislators to sign on to this deal would greatly improve the chances of avoiding a regional war -- and would help prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear power. The good news is that there have been some statements from the White House that offer hope it recognizes the centrality of Congress in a solid deal. Now it's time to see if the administration follows through.
( CNN ) Gwyneth Paltrow, the actress turned lifestyle guru, is known for promoting detoxes and health cleanses on her site, Goop.com. But she's now bringing awareness to the difficulties of life on food stamps. In a tweet Friday, Paltrow showcased an array of leafy greens, dried beans and rice, purchased for the amount a person living on food stamps is allotted each week, she explained. The amount of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits a person can get is based on the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Thrifty Food Plan. The plan estimates how much it costs to buy food, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. In this case, Paltrow will be spending just under $ 30 for groceries. Her participation is part of the #FoodBankNYCChallenge. Celebrity chef Mario Batali, a close friend of the star's, nominated Paltrow and musicians Sting and Deborah Harry for the challenge through a video. The challenge urges participants to use only $ 29 for all the food a person eats for seven days. ``For one week, walk in someone else's shoes,'' Batali is quoted saying on the Food Bank for New York City's website. ``By truly understanding what our friends and neighbors are going through, we will be better equipped to find solutions.''. The #FoodBankNYCChallenge is an attempt to live on a food stamp budget for one week, which translates to $ 1.38 per meal, according to the site. The effort is in response to recent cuts to food stamps. ``Congress cut food stamps twice since 2013, and soup kitchens and food pantries saw an immediate increase in visitors,'' the site explains. Organizers hope the challenge will raise public awareness of the struggles for families to afford food while on food stamps.
( CNN ) The Coxes can rest more comfortably living in Georgia now that their 5-year-old daughter can get the marijuana extract she needs. ``This means the world to us,'' said Haleigh Cox's mother, Janea Cox. Gov. Nathan Deal signed a bill Thursday that will legalize low-THC cannabis oil for certain ``medication-resistant epilepsies,'' while creating an infrastructure, registration process and research program for the drug. ( THC is the primary psychoactive substance in marijuana. ). The bill is dubbed Haleigh's Hope Act. Haleigh, who has been the face of the bill, was having hundreds of seizures a day and the five potent drugs meant to control them weren't making life better for the little girl. Janea Cox said in a March 2014 interview that she made the difficult decision to move her daughter to Colorado, where medical marijuana is legal, in hopes of saving her life. ``She was maxed out,'' Cox said. ``She'd quit breathing several times a day, and the doctors blamed it on the seizure medications.''. 10 diseases marijuana could affect. Cox had heard that a form of medical marijuana might help, but it wasn't available in Georgia. So a week after hearing a doctor's diagnosis that Haleigh might not live another three months, she and Haleigh packed up and moved to Colorado Springs, Colorado. There, Haleigh began a regimen of cannabis oil : four times a day and once at night. ``Every time she smiled I knew we did the right thing, because we hadn't seen her smile in three years,'' Cox said. ``Now she's thriving, she's healthy, she's happy, and they're absolutely shocked at the difference. So I think we've turned some nonbelievers into believers of cannabis oil.''. Deal is apparently one of those believers, signing HB1 on Thursday and opening the door for the use of cannabis oil to treat certain medical conditions. The bill will benefit not only people who suffer from chronic seizure disorders, but it also will allow patients to receive in-state treatment. To obtain a license in Georgia, you will need to have a specific covered condition, such as acute seizures. ``For the families enduring separation and patients suffering pain, the wait is finally over,'' Deal said Thursday.''.. Now, Georgia children and their families may return home while continuing to receive much-needed care.''. For Cox, it's a blessing ``to be able to come back home, and with Haleigh's medicine, it's done wonders for her -- going from 200-plus seizures a day and on her deathbed to a smiling, happy girl who says words now and looks us in the eye and lets us know she's in there.''. She added, ``Colorado has been good to us, but Georgia's home. Georgia's definitely home.''. With medical marijuana legal in nearly half the states, doctors are increasingly studying what effect the drug has on various ailments. While Georgia's law is specific to a handful of conditions, medical marijuana laws in states such as California permit marijuana use for an array of ailments. But as states rewrite their regulations, federal law remains the same : Marijuana is illegal to grow, sell or use for any purpose. Under the Controlled Substances Act, marijuana is listed on Schedule 1, meaning it has ``no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse.''. To backers of reform, it presents a Catch-22 : Marijuana is restricted, in large part, because there is scant research to support medical uses, yet research is difficult to conduct because of tight restrictions.
( CNN ) Lady Antebellum singer Hillary Scott's tour bus caught fire on a Texas freeway Thursday morning, but everyone on board was safely evacuated. Michael Barnett captured dramatic video of the fire, on Interstate 30 just northeast of Dallas, and uploaded it to CNN iReport. Smoke and flames poured from the rear of the bus as traffic slowed to a crawl and Barnett slowly approached in his vehicle. As he drew closer to the bus, Barnett decided to stop filming because he didn't know what to expect. ``It was shocking,'' he said. ``I didn't know what I was about to see. I didn't know if anyone was hurt.''. Barnett said he didn't realize at the time that the bus belonged to the country band. Hillary Scott, co-lead singer for the band, posted a photo of the charred bus on Instagram and noted that she, her husband, the tour manager and the driver were all evacuated safely. ``Thanking God for our safety and the safety of all of those who helped put this fire out and keep us safe,'' she wrote. The tour manager told CNN affiliate KTVT that the bus stopped after a rear tire blew out. It burst into flames after everyone had gotten off. Scott also posted an Instagram photo and message saying that the fire destroyed everything in the bus's back lounge except her Bible. The band's two other members, Charles Kelley and Dave Haywood, were not traveling on the bus, KTVT reported. Lady Antebellum is set to perform at the 50th Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday in Arlington, Texas.
Cairo ( CNN ) At least 12 people were killed Sunday, and more injured, in separate attacks on a police station, a checkpoint and along a highway in Egypt's northern Sinai, authorities said. Six people, including one civilian, were killed when a car bomb exploded near the police station in Al-Arish, capital of North Sinai, Health Ministry spokesman Hossam Abdel-Ghafar told Ahram Online. He said 40 people were injured. Ansar Beit Al-Maqdis, an ISIS affiliate, claimed responsibility for the attack, which came hours after another operation that the group also claimed. In that earlier attack, a first lieutenant, a sergeant and four conscripts were killed when their armored vehicle was attacked on the highway from Al-Arish to Sheikh Zuweid in northern Sinai, the military said. Two other soldiers were injured and taken to a military hospital. Ansar Beit Al-Maqdis has claimed many attacks against the army and police in Sinai. A third attack Sunday on a checkpoint in Rafah left three security personnel injured, after unknown assailants opened fire at them, according to state media. The attacks come as the military announced a reshuffle of several senior military positions, state media reported. Among those being replaced are the generals in charge of military intelligence and Egypt's second field army, which is spearheading the battle against the insurgents in the northern Sinai. Egypt's army has been fighting a decade-long militant Islamist insurgency, which has spiked since the ouster of Muslim Brotherhood president Mohamed Morsy in the summer of 2013. Hundreds of police and soldiers, as well as civilians, have been killed in militant attacks in the past months. Ian Lee reported from Cairo. Anas Hamdan reported from Atlanta.
( CNN ) The Cuba that photographer Carolina Sandretto captures is a world away from the images of neon 1950s American cars and postcard-worthy white sand beaches that most visitors to the island bring back home. Instead Sandretto focuses on ``solares,'' the crumbling buildings that many Cubans divide and cohabitate, often with several generations and separate families sharing one dwelling. ``This situation of bringing into your house your husband or your wife and living with your own parents in your late 30s and 40s, I always thought is really interesting and different than the U.S. but similar to my country since that's the way it was 50 years ago,'' said Sandretto, who is from Italy. Following Fidel Castro's 1959 revolution, houses and apartments were redistributed throughout Cuba and the government promised that everyone would have a home in the new socialist utopia. But building did not keep pace with the population, and Cubans were forced to adapt by dividing and re-dividing up homes to make room. ``It ends up to be a very interesting habitat,'' Sandretto said. ``Because there ( are ) so many different layers of people. It creates a whole community, even if neighbors really don't like each other.''. Sandretto said she first visited Cuba three years ago and was instantly hooked. ``I stayed and went back and back because it's a very unique place and people are really beautiful and amazing and with interesting stories,'' she said. Gaining entrance to the maze-like solares was a constant negotiation, Sandretto said, and plenty of times she was turned away. ``I always try to explain what I do, why I am there, why I am interested in where they live, the aim of my project,'' she said. Toting a 30-year-old Hasselblad 500cm camera, Sandretto found it was a good way to strike up a conversation with her subjects. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. ``They get curious when see someone going around with a bulky old camera,'' she said. ``I talk a lot. I am Italian. I speak Spanish, which helps but not a lot because you have to speak `Cuban,' which is another language.''. Her persistence allowed her to capture intimate moments of Cubans resting in the sweltering heat, crowding around a communal TV or just going about life despite their disintegrating surroundings. There are no modern appliances or conveniences in her photographs. The people in these solares aren't the fortunate Cubans who have relatives visiting from Miami with flat-screens and smartphones in tow. Instead, there is the sense of time being whittled away -- one game of dominoes or one TV soap opera a time. Sandretto said she hopes to continue to document the changes on the island that occur as the United States and Cuba work to restore diplomatic relations and an inevitable influx of American visitors arrive. The thawing in relations could even change life in Cuba's solares. ``People want to travel, have access to the Internet and improve their economic situation,'' she said. ``I hope that's what happens.''. Carolina Sandretto is an Italian photographer based in New York. You can follow her on Twitter.
Washington ( CNN ) In a broad bipartisan vote, the Senate on Tuesday gave final approval to a Medicare reform bill that includes a permanent solution to the ``doc fix,'' a method the government has used to ensure payments to Medicare providers will keep up with inflation. The bill, which passed 92 to 8, also includes a two-year extension of a popular children's health insurance program. The issue of payments to Medicare providers has been a thorny issue for years. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch of Utah called passage of the bill a ``major, major accomplishment.''. ``Tonight, the Senate is voting to retire the outdated, inefficiency-rewarding, common sense-defying Medicare reimbursement system,'' said Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee just before the final vote. The House approved the same bill overwhelmingly more than two weeks ago and President Barack Obama is expected to sign it. Senate passage came just hours before cuts to physicians would have taken place since the last temporary ``doc fix'' had already expired. Some conservative senators, including Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz of Texas, balked at the more than $ 200 billion price of the bill and pushed an amendment to have the costs offset. The bill, ``institutionalizes and expands Obamacare policies that harm patients and their doctors while adding roughly half a trillion dollars to our long-term debt within two decades,'' Cruz said in a statement. ``Any deal should be fully paid for and include significant and structural reforms to Medicare.''. But that amendment was defeated, as were several others from each party that came up for votes. Earlier, House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio warned the Senate not to change the bill. ``Unless the Senate passes the House-passed `doc fix,' significant cuts to physicians' payments will begin tomorrow,'' Boehner said. ``We urge the Senate to approve the House-passed bill without delay.''. Cruz voted against the bill, as did Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, another Republican running for president. GOP presidential contender Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky voted for the bill.
( CNN ) Caught up in a rip current while snorkeling at Finn's Beach in Bali, Roxy Walsh was holding on to some rocks when she spotted something special. Engraved with the words, ``Darling Joe, Happy 70th Birthday 2009. Love Jenny,'' the antique ring lodged in the rocks clearly meant something to both Joe and Jenny. But there were no other clues ( besides the fact that the words were written in English ) as to where the couple might live. When she returned home to Palm Beach, Australia, Walsh was determined to reunite the ring with its owner. She went to the 5,000 members of her company's Facebook page, Kids in Adelaide, to reunite Joe and Jenny with the ring. She also created a ``Find Joe and Jenny'' page to track them down. ``Hi all. It's Roxy here. This is a reaaaallyy long shot but would love some SHARE love on this post to help find Joe. Found this gold ring snorkeling at Finns Beach in Bali today. It's got a family crest on it, and engraved with the message `Darling Joe, Happy 70th Birthday 2009. Love Jenny' How amazing would it be to find him ! Please click share.''. The post got shared all over the world. Nine months earlier, Joe Langley had been snorkeling in the same spot in Bali when he lost the ring, which his wife, Jenny, had purchased an antique store and had engraved for his birthday. ``I went for a swim, got caught in a rip, decided the rip was going to take me and finished up on the rocks,'' Langley told Sunshine Coast Daily. ``In clawing my way over the rocks, the ring pulled off my finger.''. The Langleys' 19-year-old granddaughter saw the Facebook post April 9 and made the connection. It turns out that the Langleys are fellow Australians, living in the town of Noosa, just three hours from where Walsh lives in Palm Beach. Walsh had the ring professionally cleaned before she met the happy Langleys in Noosa to return it.
( CNN ) Parents who refuse to vaccinate their children can lose up to $ 11,000 of welfare benefits a year under a new government policy, Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has announced. Currently parents can choose to opt out of vaccinations for medical or religious reasons, or by stating they are ``conscientious objectors,'' and still receive taxpayer funded child care benefits. Under the new ``no jab, no pay'' policy, the exemption as a conscientious objector will be removed starting January 2016. ``The choice made by families not to immunize their children is not supported by public policy or medical research nor should such action be supported by taxpayers in the form of child care payments,'' said Abbott in a joint statement with Social Services Minister, Scott Morrison. Thousands of families could lose out on welfare payments, with the Australian government estimating more than 39,000 children under the age of seven have not been vaccinated because of their parents' objections. The number of children in Australia who have not received immunization against measles and other diseases has almost doubled in the past decade, according to the government. Anti-vaccination campaigns have recently gained traction in Western countries. Some parents believe the shots cause autism, but the theory has been widely discredited. Existing exemptions on medical or religious grounds will continue said Abbott, but guidelines on religious exemptions will be tightened. ``It requires the formal position of that religious body being advised to the government and approved by the government. This is a very significant narrowing,'' Morrison told reporters in Sydney on Sunday. He added that no mainstream religious organizations have made any formal objection to immunizations. In response to the announcement, more than 7,000 people have signed a petition in opposition to the reforms.
( CNN ) It's no surprise which image is making the headlines from this week's gathering of leaders from nearly three dozen nations in Panama : A historic handshake between President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro. But this first meeting of Obama and Castro since they announced plans to start normalizing diplomatic ties should not be the end of the summit story. Or at least Obama is hoping it won't be. After all, the President has had some unhappy experiences at hemispheric summits, where the headlines have often focused on some less than flattering moments. The reality is that the United States has been losing ground in this increasingly important region, and Obama needs to put on a strong performance in Panama at the Summit of the Americas if the U.S. is to have a chance of improving ties with neighbors who should be best friends, but who have drifted away as America has been focused on challenges at home and instability in the Middle East. Unfortunately, America has lost influence in Latin America to a hyperactive China, a cunning Russia and a troubling Iran, all of which have made inroads in the region at Washington's expense. This gathering therefore offers a chance for the U.S. to reverse the tide and build on the potential offered by a natural alliance strengthened by millions of people with Latin American and Caribbean blood who make their homes in the United States. The foundations for a strong hemispheric bloc are there. But they need attention, and the Panama meeting offers a good opportunity to start building. But first : Do no harm. Large diplomatic gatherings are minutely orchestrated events, and the U.S., with its vast experience in preparing for high-level multilateral meetings, knows the importance of dotting the I's and crossing the T's. But this hasn't stopped recent summits descending into diplomatic and PR disasters for the U.S. Just look at the last summit, held in Cartagena, Colombia, which stayed in the news much longer than anyone expected after Secret Service agents embarrassed the United States by hiring prostitutes and bringing them to their hotel rooms, in violation of basic security protocols. They were reportedly caught after one of the women accused an agent of refusing to pay an agreed fee. As a result of all this, the Americans looked dumb, incompetent -- and cheap. And back in 2009, the President -- new on the job -- was caught flat footed by a fast-talking, fiery anti-American president of Venezuela. The late Hugo Chavez outplayed the leader of the free world, who had just taken office and was trying to show America's new ``outstretched hand'' toward the foe of the George W. Bush era. The summit hit a depressing low for the Obama administration when Chavez walked up to Obama and, as the cameras clicked, handed the American President a copy of the book ``Open Veins of Latin America,'' which blames the region's woes on the U.S. and Europe. Yet the problems in Cartagena weren't just symbolic. Regional leaders lined up against Washington, which had refused to include Cuba in the summit, and vowed they would not hold any more of the gatherings unless Havana was also invited. America was cornered. All this stands in contrast to the optimism of the early Clinton years, when the President issued an invitation to ``democratically elected'' heads of state of Latin America, which was then breaking the chains of military dictatorship. Back then, the U.S. had just led the creation of the North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) and actually seemed to stand for something attractive to the region, namely democracy, free trade and economic growth. That's what it should aim for every time : articulating a clear vision and rallying neighbors behind it. Can Obama manage something similar this time ?. True, the President has come armed with his new Cuba policy. Unfortunately, in an effort to placate critics who say Obama is not doing more for pro-democracy activists, the White House has miscalculated with Venezuela, handing the repressive regime of Chavez's successor, Nicolas Maduro, a stick with which to beat the U.S. Obama has long and rightly ignored Maduro's claims that the U.S. planned to overthrow him. But a modest plan to impose sanctions has suddenly handed Maduro -- who has presided over an economic catastrophe in his country -- a way to portray himself a victim of the U.S., something he will no doubt play that up in Panama. All this risks again reviving memories of past tensions with Latin Americans who already have complicated feelings toward the U.S. over its Cold War support for unseemly right-wing dictators, a policy it claimed to pursue in the name of preventing Soviet-backed communism from taking hold. But those days are behind us. Today, the people want prosperity, they want democracy, and they want the rule of law -- all of which leave a potential opening for the United States. Too many national leaders are eroding democratic norms : Opposition leaders are in prison in Venezuela ; a prosecutor who criticized the President was found dead in Argentina ; press freedom is under siege in several countries ; and corruption is reaching new highs. All of this suggests that if Obama plays his cards right, he will have the opportunity to explain to the people of Latin America that their goals are also America's goals ; that like them, he supports democracy, human rights, the rule of law, full freedom of expression and free elections in every country. The fact that he met with Cuban dissidents was welcome, and sends a message that he is not neglecting other issues such as human rights as he recasts relations with Cuba. For the millions in Latin America that still live in poverty, these freedoms can seem like a distant luxury. But if Obama can show them that the United States is a true partner in efforts to improve their lives, then he will leave a longer-lasting legacy in the region than just a handshake.
( CNN ) For Lt. Colonel John Schwemmer, the scenery is all too familiar. This is his sixth tour in Iraq, and he's back doing a job that he's been tasked with before : training Iraqi soldiers. Schwemmer and other active U.S. military personnel are on the ground in Iraq, whipping often ill-equipped government troops into shape. They've been here before, but this time, he feels, they're getting it right. But the U.S. military isn't the only contingent of Western forces in the region -- dozens of foreigners, including Americans, have volunteered to take the fight to ISIS. And increasingly, U.S. military training efforts are being supplemented by outside agencies, who are working with Kurdish government troops and even militia in Iraq and Syria. ``Many of us do feel that we do have the skills and qualifications that can be used to benefit those in the region,'' said Ian Bradbury, a Canadian former soldier who is training Kurdish Peshmerga forces in northern Iraq. While it is difficult to say how many foreign volunteers are fighting ISIS, a spokesman for a Kurdish militia fighting against them in Syria -- known as the YPG -- told the New York Times their forces include more than 100 American citizens. U.S. law enforcement officials say it is illegal to join a Syrian militia. But some organizations have set up recruitment drives online, featuring applications for foreign fighters complete with checklists of what to bring and advice on bringing body armor across international borders. Jordan Matson, a 28-year-old former U.S. army soldier from the tiny town of Sturtevant, Wisconsin, volunteered with the YPG. He told CNN that after much soul searching he realized that he needed to help in the battle against ISIS' brutal, expansionist regime. ``I got in contact with the YPG on Facebook and prayed about it for probably a month or two and asked, `is this what I want to do ?' and eventually, you know, decided to do it. ``All my life I wanted to be a solider.. so I guess this just fits well over here.''. But foreign fighters aren't universally welcomed by those opposing ISIS. The Peshmerga, the military wing of the Kurdish Regional Government ( KRG ) that has been one of the most effective counterbalances to ISIS' expansion, has said they don't want or need foreign fighters, according to Bradbury. ``The information I've been getting back is that there's very little use for ( Western fighters ) on the front lines, especially on the KRG side -- they have significant numbers of personnel -- it's a source of Kurdish pride for them to rise up in scenarios like this. They more need the development assistance.''. Peshmerga spokesman Helgurd Hekmat also told Kurdish news wire Rudaw that it was illegal for foreigners to join their ranks. While individual fighters are not always accepted, volunteers working as military trainers are sharing their expertise to support those on the front lines of the fight against ISIS forces. Bradbury set up 1st North American Expeditionary Forces ( 1st NAEF ), a training body which, he says, is currently providing material support and training to the Peshmerga, whose name means ``those who face death,'' in northern Iraq. ``Internal capacity building is by far the solution that you can put into a region that is suffering instability from conflict,'' he told CNN by phone from his base in Ottawa, Canada. ``Increasing their ability to maintain stability over the long term is far better than trying to influx it with a bunch of westerners who are going to leave within a short period of time.''. He was prompted to establish the group after seeing ``fairly significant gaps'' in the support provided by the coalition forces for the Kurdish, Iraqi regular and militia ranged against ISIS. The U.S. military is ``confident'' that its support of the forces battling ISIS on the ground is sufficient. ``We're confident the U.S. military mission of degrading and ultimately defeating ( ISIS ) will be found by working through our Middle Eastern partners and the international community,'' Maj. Omar Villarreal, Communication Integration Planner, U.S. Central Command Communication Integration Directorate, told CNN. ``The training element of the mission is no different. It relies on direct and comprehensive military cooperation with regional partner nations, who share a mutual interest in promoting security. One of the goals of the train and equip program, is to build the capabilities of the moderate Syrian fighters to defend the Syrian people. We are confident in our efforts.''. With coalition members keen to distance themselves from calls for Western boots on the ground -- and little political appetite from overseas for risking Western troops in what many see as a sectarian conflict, Bradbury contends that the best-case scenario is exactly the kind of logistical support that organizations like 1st NAEF are providing. ISIS is keen to play up religious and sectarian divisions in order to create the perception that they are the Sunni protectors of a persecuted underclass, sending non-Arab troops into the battlefield -- even in a support role -- could play into that divisive rhetoric. Bradbury downplays this risk, saying the threat is there, and is best contained in the region. Providing noncombat backing, such as medical, weaponry, logistical and training assistance would appear, he thinks, to be the best way of supporting those Kurdish and Arab troops on the front. ``Regardless of perceptions of any kind of us-against-them scenario, it absolutely is a world-against-ISIS issue that needs to take place and there definitely needs to be a global response,'' he said.
( CNN ) Sometimes the best ideas come from the bathroom. But Gaioz Nigalidze's ideas from the loo were a little too good. The Georgian chess grandmaster has been banned from the Dubai Open Chess Tournament after officials discovered he was darting to the toilet to consult his smartphone, which was logged onto a chess analysis app, the Dubai Chess and Culture Club said. Nigalidze's opponent, Tigran Petrosian of Armenia, grew suspicious when Nigalidze kept bolting to the restroom. ``The Armenian noticed the Georgian was oddly frequenting the toilet after each move during a crucial part of the game,'' the Dubai Chess and Culture Club said. When officials first checked Nigalidze, they didn't find any device on him, the club said. But after looking into the bathroom stall he visited, they found the smartphone hidden in toilet paper. At first, Nigalidze claimed the smartphone wasn't his, the Dubai chess organization said. But the phone was logged on to a social media network under his account. ``They also found his game being analyzed in one of the chess applications,'' the chess club said. The infraction has been reported to the International Chess Federation. The Dubai tournament's chief arbiter, Mahdi Abdul Rahim, said players found guilty of cheating will be suspended for three years from all sanctioned tournaments and up to 15 years for a repeated offense, the chess and culture club said. But this wouldn't be an isolated case of cheating in high-stakes chess matches. In 2008, an Iranian player was banned from the Dubai Open after getting help from someone who was watching the game's live broadcast and was sending suggestions via text messages, the Dubai chess club said. Nigalidze's resume includes victories in the 2013 and 2014 Georgian Chess Championships. It's not clear how many times he went to the bathroom during those matches.
( HLN ) HLN's #MeForReal is an uplifting, revealing conversation about the way we present ourselves online. We want to see the REAL parts of life, the ones that don't get a filter or a Facebook post but are a part of our realities nonetheless. Tag your favorite unscripted, unedited, un-perfected moments using #MeForReal and see what others are sharing on Facebook, Twitter and the Daily Share. The Internet is always quick to dish out judgmental opinions, such as the body-hate people showed to singer P!nk after she posted a photo of herself in a black dress she wore to a cancer benefit this past weekend ( which, if you ask us, was pretty fantastic, and she looked fabulous in it. ). As a woman with a lot of experience singing to her detractors, though, she knew exactly what to say and how to say it. And when it came to keeping her tongue firmly in cheek while she schooled people who had nothing better to do than be totally rude, she owned it. Clearly, it's not troubling P!nk or her hubs, Carey Hart ( who, by the way, is quite handsome himself, so clearly he has rad taste ). Not only did P!nk's response rally her fans, but they also started sharing their own photos of themselves post-pregnancy and embracing what P!nk tells her daughter is her ``squishiness.''. Postscript for the haters : We think you just racked up MORE fans for P!nk. Now go look in a mirror, and tell us -- are YOU perfect ?
Tulsa, Oklahoma ( CNN ) Amid growing scrutiny over whether a 73-year-old volunteer deputy who killed a suspect during a sting operation was qualified to be policing the streets, a new report raises a troubling allegation. Some supervisors at the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office were told to forge Reserve Deputy Robert Bates' training records, and three who refused were reassigned to less desirable duties, the Tulsa World newspaper reported. Claims that the volunteer deputy's records had been falsified emerged ``almost immediately'' from multiple sources after Bates killed Eric Harris on April 2, reporter Dylan Goforth said. Bates claims he meant to use his Taser but accidentally fired his handgun at Harris instead. The newspaper's story does not say who allegedly asked the supervisors to falsify the training records or why. But the orders apparently started years ago, before Harris' death, ``back when ( Bates ) was trying to get on as a deputy,'' reporter Ziva Branstetter told CNN's ``New Day.''. The Sheriff's Office denied the allegations in the Tulsa World's report. It also declined a CNN interview to respond to the claims. In an email to CNN, the department's Maj. Shannon Clark said the lack of named sources in the newspaper's report leaves him dubious. ``Just keep in mind that the Tulsa World reporter can not validate her sources and claims anonymity, which leaves us skeptical that her claims are unsubstantiated and deceptive,'' Clark wrote. Clark Brewster, an attorney who represents Bates, said the accusations are based on an affidavit from a former Sheriff's Office employee who's now facing a first-degree murder charge. ``I don't put a lot of stock in that report or the credibility of who would further that report,'' Brewster said. Shooting casts spotlight on volunteer police programs. Sheriff Stanley Glanz and other sheriff's officials have repeatedly insisted Bates was properly trained. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office has released a summary of Bates' training courses only over the past seven years. The office rejected CNN's request for the full training records because Bates' case is under investigation. Branstetter said she's run into similar obstacles when asking for the names of supervisors who'd signed off on Bates' training records. ``You would think the Sheriff's Office, if in fact there has been no pressure applied, no falsification of records, that they would be forthcoming with these documents,'' she told CNN's ``New Day.''. ``We've asked for them. They've said they don't believe they're public records.''. Bates was classified as an advanced reserve deputy for the Sheriff's Office. That means he would have had to complete 480 hours of the field training officer program to maintain that classification, the paper said. Bates would also have needed firearms certification training. But the sheriff himself has acknowledged there is a problem with Bates' gun certification records -- his office can't find them. ``Bob went out and qualified with three different weapons with an instructor,'' Glanz told KFAQ radio this week. He said Bates ``qualified with a young lady that was a firearms instructor.'' But she is no longer there. ``She has left the Sheriff's Office and is now a Secret Service agent,'' Glanz told KFAQ. ``And we're trying to get a hold of her and talk to her about.. we can't find the records that she supposedly turned in. So we're going to talk to her and find out if for sure he did qualify with those.''. Opinion : Who gave this reserve cop a gun ?. Even before the Tulsa World story, inconsistencies were apparent in Bates' history with the Sheriff's Office. In his statement to investigators, Bates said he ``became an advanced TCSO Reserve Deputy in 2007.''. But the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office has said Bates had been a reserve deputy since 2008. It also said Bates had undergone 300 hours of training. That would be less than the 480 hours of field training that the Tulsa World said is required to be an ``advanced'' reserve deputy, which Bates claimed to be. In a statement he made to investigators after the shooting, Bates said the gun he used was his personal weapon, adding that he last qualified at the range in autumn. He also said he'd attended ``numerous schools and seminars related to drug investigations and the tactical operations associated with the apprehension of suspects involved in drug trafficking,'' a five-day homicide investigation school in Dallas and training from Arizona's Maricopa County Sheriff's Office on responding to active shooters. But an Arizona official told CNN Bates never trained with the agency. ``He didn't come to Arizona,'' the official from the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office said, ``and he certainly didn't train with us.''. Brewster said that line in Bates' statement was referring to a lecture given at a seminar in Washington by Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. The seminar was part of extensive training Bates received at classes across the country and through work in the field, he said. ``He met every training regimen,'' Brewster said. ``He met every requirement, and all he did was give of himself.''. Bates is now charged with second-degree manslaughter for Harris' death. He turned himself in to authorities Tuesday and immediately posted bail of $ 25,000. His attorney has said he's not guilty, calling the death an ``excusable homicide.''. The lawyer for Harris' family claims Bates wasn't qualified to be on the force, but received preferential treatment because he'd made donations to the agency and was a friend of the sheriff -- an accusation officials deny, saying they stand by his training record. Tulsa Police Sgt. Jim Clark, who has been brought in to review the case, has said Bates fell ``victim'' to something called ``slip and capture,'' a term to describe a high-stress situation in which a person intends to do one thing and instead does something else. It's a controversial claim that hasn't convinced critics of the department, and calls for an independent investigation into the Sheriff's Office and the case are growing. Earlier this week, the office spokesman rejected any idea of outside investigators into the shooting. ``We're not scared to prosecute our own.. There's nobody in this culture that can be tougher on cops than their own,'' Clark said. ``You know that analogy that you'll eat your young ? You know, that's the same thing in law enforcement. If we have a dirty cop in our ranks, we will disclose them much quicker than the media.''. A spokesman for Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt said his office is concerned about allegations reported in the media about the case ``and will continue to monitor and assess what appropriate measures, if any, are warranted.''. Glanz has stated publicly that he's reached out to the regional office of the FBI to look into the shooting. Special Agent Terry B. Weber told CNN there's no open FBI investigation into the case. How easy is it to confuse a gun for a Taser ?. CNN's Ed Lavandera reported from Tulsa. CNN's Holly Yan and Catherine E. Shoichet reported from Atlanta. CNN's Dave Alsup and Jason Morris contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A New Jersey auction house has removed items from its April 17 event after an uproar from the public. The items are crafts and artifacts made by Japanese-Americans confined to World War II internment camps. A grass-roots campaign of a change.org petition, a Facebook page, and mediation by ``Star Trek'' actor George Takei has resulted in Rago Arts and Auction Center agreeing to pull the items from the sale. ``There is an essential discussion to be had about the sale of historical items that are a legacy of man's inhumanity to man. It extends beyond what is legal. It is something auction houses, galleries and dealers are faced with regularly,'' the auction house said. ``We hope this controversy will be the beginning of a discourse on this issue.''. Takei, who with his family spent time in one of the camps, thanked people for working to stop the sale. According to a comment on the Facebook page ``Japanese American History : NOT for Sale,'' he was working on the issue while on a trip to Australia. ``It took a few calls today here in the wee hours, and I'll be issuing a formal statement later, but we can all celebrate a bit today at this news,'' he wrote. The auction house said 24 lots of an original collection of works of art and crafts were removed. During World War II, about 117,000 people of Japanese descent were forced to live in 10 internment camps. The government called them relocation centers. Many of the people who lived there and their descendants had another phrase for the facilities. They call them concentration camps. Two-thirds of the people who were ordered there were native born U.S. citizens, according to the National Archives. CNN affiliate KGO reported the items were given to historian Allen Eaton, who opposed internment camps. The items were inherited from the historian's estate. Miriam Tucker, a partner with the auction house, said it had hoped the items would go to someone who cared about their historical meaning. ``For us, there could be no better resolution than for a suitable museum, foundation or members of the Japanese-American community with the means to preserve this collection to come forward and secure it for education, display and research,'' she said. KGO reported the people it talked to would like items returned to family members if possible and any other artifacts put in an exhibition. ``This was a gift and let the gift come full circle,'' said Judy Hamaguchi with the San Francisco Chapter of the Japanese American Citizens League. She was referring to a letter the organization sent to the auction house. ``It should be returned as a gift.''. The lots have been packed away for now, said auction house partner David Rago in an email. ``Once the dust settles from this auction weekend ( 1,200 lots in three days ) we will work with a small group of people from the Japanese-American community who have identified themselves through this process as generous, informed, voices of reason,'' he wrote. He said a suitable institution is the best possible home and the auction house will work with the current owner to find the right place. The seller -- known in the auction business as the consignor -- has never been in a position where the items could be donated, Rago said. ``But the consignor, who has been a sensitive and dedicated custodian of this collection for over 35 years, has agreed this evening to work with Rago Auctions to secure appropriate placement of Eaton's life work,'' he added.
( CNN ) Donald Sterling's racist remarks cost him an NBA team last year. But now it's his former female companion who has lost big. A Los Angeles judge has ordered V. Stiviano to pay back more than $ 2.6 million in gifts after Sterling's wife sued her. In the lawsuit, Rochelle ``Shelly'' Sterling accused Stiviano of targeting extremely wealthy older men. She claimed Donald Sterling used the couple's money to buy Stiviano a Ferrari, two Bentleys and a Range Rover, and that he helped her get a $ 1.8 million duplex. Who is V. Stiviano ?. Stiviano countered that there was nothing wrong with Donald Sterling giving her gifts and that she never took advantage of the former Los Angeles Clippers owner, who made much of his fortune in real estate. Shelly Sterling was thrilled with the court decision Tuesday, her lawyer told CNN affiliate KABC. ``This is a victory for the Sterling family in recovering the $ 2,630,000 that Donald lavished on a conniving mistress,'' attorney Pierce O'Donnell said in a statement. ``It also sets a precedent that the injured spouse can recover damages from the recipient of these ill-begotten gifts.''. Stiviano's gifts from Donald Sterling didn't just include uber-expensive items like luxury cars. According to the Los Angeles Times, the list also includes a $ 391 Easter bunny costume, a $ 299 two-speed blender and a $ 12 lace thong. Donald Sterling's downfall came after an audio recording surfaced of the octogenarian arguing with Stiviano. In the tape, Sterling chastises Stiviano for posting pictures on social media of her posing with African-Americans, including basketball legend Magic Johnson. ``In your lousy f ** ing Instagrams, you don't have to have yourself with -- walking with black people,'' Sterling said in the audio first posted by TMZ. He also tells Stiviano not to bring Johnson to Clippers games and not to post photos with the Hall of Famer so Sterling's friends can see. ``Admire him, bring him here, feed him, f**k him, but don't put ( Magic ) on an Instagram for the world to have to see so they have to call me,'' Sterling said. NBA Commissioner Adam Silver banned Sterling from the league, fined him $ 2.5 million and pushed through a charge to terminate all of his ownership rights in the franchise. Fact check : Donald Sterling's claims vs. reality. CNN's Dottie Evans contributed to this report.
( CNN ) NBA player Thabo Sefolosha says police caused his season-ending leg injury when he was arrested last week after leaving a nightclub in New York. In a statement Tuesday, the guard/forward for the Atlanta Hawks described his injury as ``significant,'' and said it ``was caused by the police.''. Sefolosha suffered a fractured fibula and ligament damage when he and teammate Pero Antic were arrested near the scene of the stabbing of Indiana Pacers forward Chris Copeland and two other women early April 8. Police said Sefolosha and Antic were not involved in the stabbing incident, but they were charged with misdemeanors, including disorderly conduct and obstructing governmental administration. TMZ Sports released video last week that shows a group of police officers arresting the 6-foot-7 Sefolosha and taking him to the ground. It also shows an officer within that group getting out a baton and extending it near him, but what may have caused the injury is not clear in the video. Sefolosha appears to be limping as he is led away by officers. New York Police Department Sgt. Daniel Doody said Wednesday that the matter is being reviewed by the Internal Affairs Bureau and would not comment further. Internal Affairs had no comment. Sefolosha did not specify his injury in his statement Tuesday, but the Hawks said last week that he has a fractured fibula and ligament damage, will undergo surgery and will miss the rest of the season, including the playoffs, which begin this weekend. The Hawks enter as the top seed in the NBA's Eastern Conference. Sefolosha, who turns 31 in May, is in his ninth NBA season and his first with the Hawks. He averaged 5.3 points per game this season. ``I am extremely disappointed that I will not be able to join my teammates on the court during the playoffs and apologize to them for any distraction this incident has caused,'' Sefolosha said in his statement. ``I will be cheering for them every step of the way and will be diligent in my rehabilitation. ``On advice of counsel, I hope you can appreciate that I can not discuss the facts of the case. Those questions will be answered by my attorney in a court of law. I will simply say that I am in great pain, have experienced a significant injury and that the injury was caused by the police.''. Hawks coach Mike Budenholzer said in a statement last week, ``This is a very difficult situation for Thabo and our thoughts and support will be with him during his recovery. We know that his approach and dedication will serve him well in his rehabilitation. Our team remains focused and will be prepared as we head into the postseason.''. Antic, a 31-year-old, 6-foot-11 center/forward, missed the April 8 game against the Brooklyn Nets, but has played since then. In a joint statement last week, Sefolosha and Antic said they will contest the charges. According to the Pacers, Copeland underwent surgery on his abdomen and left elbow for stab wounds. He was released from the hospital two days after the incident, according to Bleacher Report. The Pacers, with one regular-season game left, are trying to secure the last spot in the Eastern Conference playoffs. If they do, their first-round opponent would be Atlanta. CNN's Camille Cava contributed to this report.
( CNN ) From late January, when New England was living through one of its bleakest and snowiest winters, to a warm and sunny afternoon in April, the jurors in the first-degree murder trial of former NFL star Aaron Hernandez have considered how a promising young athlete who earned millions came to take the life of his onetime friend and future brother-in-law, Odin Lloyd. The jury of seven women and five men listened to more than 130 witnesses and reviewed more than 400 pieces of evidence over the months-long trial. On Wednesday, they convicted Hernandez, who was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole, after deliberating more than 35 hours over parts of seven days. After the verdict, jurors agreed to meet with reporters, at times laughing nervously while shedding light on what some described as the grueling deliberation process. Here are five things to know about what they said :. While declining to discuss specifics of what happened in the jury room, jurors said they came away satisfied with their decision. ``It's a very big decision to make, and every one of us.. made sure we came to the best conclusion,'' one juror told reporters. At one point on Monday, jurors asked Judge Susan Garsh to allow smoking breaks, which were permitted during trial. Some observers thought this signaled weeks of deliberations. A male juror said some panel members had meticulously filled four to eight notebooks as they listened to testimony. ``It was hard.. for everyone,'' said a woman on the jury. ``Everyone's life changed because of this.''. Asked to elaborate, she told a reporter, ``I've been here for as long as you have.''. ``It's the hardest thing I've ever done in my life,'' she said later about serving on the jury. ``Absolutely, by far.''. Asked whether they would say anything to Hernandez, one of the women on the panel said simply, ``Nothing.'' Others nodded in apparent agreement. Do they have any feelings about the 25-year-old former star ?. ``For me, Judge Garsh said, `Keep your mind suspended,''' said a female juror. ``We went in there every day with open minds. We listened to the evidence. We heard what they had to say. We got to go into a room and see and touch and feel all the evidence and that's when we came to our conclusion.''. Did they know anything about Hernandez or the case before the trial ?. One juror responded : ``Nothing.''. ``Very little,'' said another. About six jurors raised their hands when asked who among them was a New England Patriots fan. The jurors said they found out about Hernandez's other legal woes from Garsh only after they reached a verdict. Hernandez potentially faces three more trials, one criminal and two civil actions. Next up is another murder trial in which he is accused of killing two men and wounding another person near a Boston nightclub in July 2012. Prosecutors have said Hernandez fatally shot Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado when he fired into their 2003 BMW. Another passenger was wounded and two others were uninjured. Hernandez pleaded not guilty at his arraignment. The families of de Abreu and Furtado filed civil suits against Hernandez, and a judge froze his $ 5 million in assets, pending the outcome of the double-murder trial. The freeze includes the disputed $ 3.3 million signing bonus payment Hernandez claims he is owed by the New England Patriots. Hernandez is also being sued by a man who claims Hernandez shot him while they were in a limousine in Miami in February 2013. Alexander Bradley claims Hernandez wounded him after the two got into a fight at a Miami strip club. ``It's amazing a lot of the information we learned today,'' a female juror said Wednesday. ``I think we can all say we made the right decision.''. Some jurors admitted to not knowing who Patriots owner Robert Kraft was when he took the stand at the trial. But they agreed that Kraft's testimony was crucial. Kraft testified that Hernandez proclaimed his innocence to him and told the team owner that ``he hoped that the time of the murder.. came out because I believe he said he was in a club.''. ``To this day -- we just went through a three-month trial, and this is now two years later -- we still don't know the exact time of Odin's murder,'' a male juror said. ``So I don't know how Aaron would have had that information two years ago.''. Another juror was struck by the emotional testimony of Lloyd's family and friends. ``For me, it was in the beginning -- the pictures,'' a woman said of autopsy photos of Lloyd's bullet-riddled body. ``You're told to be unemotional and to sit there and hold back tears.. ( That ) was hard.''. One man said his time on the case made him ``appreciate how quickly life can end and how fleeting it can be.''. And that the justice system can work. ``The system is designed to be fair to both sides,'' he said. ``In fairness, you can't rush.''. The jurors did not find credible the defense team's contention that Hernandez's co-defendants -- Ernest Wallace and Carlos Ortiz -- carried out the murder. The two men have pleaded not guilty and will be tried separately. In closing arguments, defense lawyer James Sultan for the first time placed Hernandez at the murder scene. Sultan described Wallace and Ortiz as a pair of drug dealers known to become crazed while on PCP, as men capable of killing someone in drug-induced fits of rage. ``Did he make all the right decisions ? No,'' Sultan said of Hernandez. ``He was a 23-year-old kid who witnessed something, committed by somebody he knew. He really didn't know what to do, so he put one foot in front of another. Keep in mind, he's not charged with accessory after the fact.. He's charged with murder.. and that he did not do.''. ``We were all shocked about that,'' a female juror told reporters Wednesday. ``It was very surprising,'' said another. Asked about post-trial fame or the possibility of book deals for their role in the sensational case, a female juror smiled. ``None of us wanted to come into this room,'' she told the reporters gathered around her. The jurors said they expected to sleep peacefully Wednesday night. ``After a beverage,'' one of them added. Asked whether they were leaving the experience as friends, they all seemed to say, ``Yes.''
( CNN ) Jason Rezaian has sat in jail in Iran for nearly nine months. The Washington Post's bureau chief in Tehran was arrested in July on unspecified allegations. It took more than four months for a judge to hear charges against him. They remained publicly undisclosed until last week. The Iranian-American will be tried soon on espionage, Tehran's chief justice said. He is accused of economic spying, the Post reported, citing Iranian state media. The Washington Post did not mince words on the allegation. ``Any charges of that sort would be absurd, the product of fertile and twisted imaginations,'' the paper said in a statement. The State Department also reacted with term ``absurd'' after hearing of reports in Iran's press about the charges. ``If the reports are true, these charges are absurd, should be immediately dismissed and Jason should be immediately freed so that he can return to his family,'' the State Department official said. Since officers picked up Rezaian and his wife, Yeganeh Salehi, on July 22 at their home, the Post, the State Department and Rezaian's family have protested and called for his release. Salehi was released on bail in October. Rezaian was denied bail. And for months, he was denied access to proper legal representation, his family has said. Boxing great Muhammad Ali, also an American Muslim, appealed to Tehran last month to give Rezaian full access to legal representation and free him on bail. ``To my knowledge, Jason is a man of peace and great faith, a man whose dedication and respect for the Iranian people is evident in his work,'' Ali said in a religiously worded statement. The journalist has also not been allowed to see visitors aside from his wife and has endured long interrogations, family members have said. In December, after a 10-hour hearing, Rezaian signed a paper to acknowledge that he understood the charges against him, the Post reported. Iran's human rights chief, Mohammad Javad Larijani, told news outlet France 24 last year that he hoped Rezaian's case would come to a positive conclusion. He said, ``Let us hope that this fiasco will end on good terms.''. More on detained Americans. CNN's Sara Mazloumsaki and Azadeh Ansari contributed to this report.
( CNN ) While the fight against ISIS in Syria and Iraq holds the world's gaze, a simultaneous transformation is getting less attention : the deterioration of al Qaeda. In an audio message released Sunday, al Qaeda confirmed that two of its leaders, known as Ustad Ahmad Farooq and Qari Abdullah Mansur, were killed in CIA drone strikes in January in North Waziristan, near the Afghan-Pakistan border. Farooq's real name was Raja Mohammad Suleman, al Qaeda said. He was a Pakistani who acted as the group's liaison to the Pakistan Taliban and was the deputy commander of al Qaeda's South Asia branch. ( Mansur's real name was Qari Ubaidullah, a Pakistani who oversaw suicide missions against U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan ). Al Qaeda's South Asia branch is relatively new, announced with some fanfare back in September by al Qaeda's top leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri. The creation of the terror group's South Asia branch was seen by some terrorism analysts as an attempt to steal some of the limelight from ISIS, which is embroiled in a public dispute with al Qaeda for leadership of the global jihad movement. The deaths of the two men continue the decimation of al Qaeda's bench of leaders. On Monday, in the southern Pakistani city of Karachi, local al Qaeda commander Nurul Hassan was killed in a raid, said Arif Hanif, district inspector general of police. Florida-raised Adnan Shukrijumah, 39, who was in charge of al Qaeda's operations to attack the West, was killed in December in a Pakistani military operation. Texas-born Mohanad Mahmoud Al Farekh, who also played a planning role for al Qaeda's operations, was arrested in Pakistan last year. The deaths of Ubaidullah and Suleman underline the fact that there are almost no top leaders of al Qaeda left except al-Zawahiri. Both Ubaidullah and Suleman were Pakistani. This is an indicator of how al Qaeda has become a largely Pakistan-focused group, increasingly able to do nothing of any significance outside of Pakistan or Afghanistan. Indeed, al Qaeda has virtually no capacity to carry out attacks in the West. The last successful al Qaeda attack in the West was the London transportation system bombings a decade ago. Al Qaeda is now reduced only to holding American hostages such as 73-year-old aid worker Warren Weinstein, who was kidnapped from his home in the Pakistani city of Lahore on August 13, 2011. To be sure, al Qaeda's Yemen-based affiliate, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP, continues to pose a threat to American aviation. The group has built hard-to-detect bombs, which it has placed on U.S.-bound flights. Luckily, those bombs were faulty or were detected. The group also trained one of the gunmen who attacked the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris in January, killing 12, but it's not clear if AQAP had any direct role in planning this attack. Meanwhile, ISIS continues to attract Western recruits and also inspire ``homegrown'' terrorists in the West, but the core al Qaeda organization that killed almost 3,000 men, women and children on 9/11 is on life support. Al Qaeda's confirmation of the deaths of Ubaidullah and Suleman is just one of the latest pieces of evidence for this assessment.
( CNN ) The U.N. Security Council voted Tuesday in favor of an arms embargo on Houthis -- the minority group that has taken over large swaths of Yemen, including its capital, Sanaa -- and supporters of former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh. The resolution ``raises the cost'' for the Houthis, according to Mark Lyall Grant, Britain's ambassador to the United Nations. In addition to the arms embargo, it also demands that the Shiite group pull back and refrain from more violence and includes sanctions aimed at controlling the spread of terrorism, according to Grant. Russia abstained from Tuesday's vote, saying it didn't like the inclusion of sanctions. In recent weeks, Saudi Arabia has led a coalition that is conducting airstrikes on targets associated with Saleh's supporters and the Houthis, who have emerged as Yemen's most dominant force in recent months. Also Tuesday, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and Saudi Arabian Minister of Defense Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz agreed to form a joint military commission to discuss the implementation of a major strategic maneuver inside Saudi Arabia, Egypt's state-run Ahram news agency reported. Egypt announced that it would dispatch several naval ships to help halt the rebels' advance. In response to media reports, Egyptian officials said no troops have yet been sent to Yemen. The Houthis forced President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January, though Hadi still claims he is Yemen's legitimate leader and is working with the Saudis and other allies to return to Yemen. Those allied with Hadi have accused the Iranian government of supporting the Houthis in their uprising in Yemen. They include Yemen's current ambassador to the United Nations, Khaled Mahfoodh Abdulla Bahah, who said Tuesday, ``We refuse ( the ) influence of Iran in Yemen affairs.''. CNN's Richard Roth and Dominique Dodley reported from New York, and CNN's Greg Botelho wrote this report from Atlanta. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Authorities detained a 15-year-old girl from Cape Town, South Africa, at the city's airport after receiving information she was leaving the country to join ISIS, State Security Minister David Mahlobo said. ``We are still conducting further investigation. The girl over the past period has been using technology on social media platforms interacting with strange people and reading material that suggested she expressed an interest in joining a terrorist group called ISIS,'' he told broadcaster eNCA. Police and airport security located the girl on a Johannesburg-bound flight, and ``we got our agencies to secure all the important exit points in the country. We got her at Cape Town International Airport,'' Mahlobo said. Virginia teen accused of being ISIS recruiter. It's not clear how the girl was recruited or how the airfare was arranged, he said. Officials debriefed the girl's family and released her into the family's care, Mahlobo said. ``The recruitment and radicalization of particularly young people to take part in acts of terror is a growing global concern and local law enforcement agencies will continue to work hard in clamping these from materializing,'' the minister said in a statement Monday. Australia teens suspected of trying to join ISIS stopped at airport.
( CNN ) Eleven channels associated with the French-language global television network TV5Monde went black late Wednesday due to an ``extremely powerful cyberattack,'' the network's director said. In addition to its 11 channels, TV5Monde also temporarily lost control of its social media outlets and its websites, director Yves Bigot said in a video message posted later on Facebook. On a mobile site, which was still active, the network said it was ``hacked by an Islamist group.'' ISIS logos and markings could be seen on some TV5Monde social media accounts. But there was no immediate claim of responsibility by ISIS or any other group. The outage began around 10 p.m. Paris time ( 4 p.m. ET ), and network teams were still working to restore service more than five hours later. According to France's Ministry of Culture and Communications, TV5Monde offers round-the-clock entertainment, news and culturing programming in French that reaches 260 million homes worldwide. It functions under a partnership that consists of the governments of France, Canada and Switzerland, as well as the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Other networks that provide content to TV5Monde include CNN affiliates France 2 and France 3, France 24 and Radio France International.
Los Angeles ( CNN ) Former rap mogul Marion ``Suge'' Knight was ordered Thursday to stand trial for murder and other charges stemming from a deadly hit-and-run confrontation on the movie set of the biopic ``Straight Outta Compton'' earlier this year. In addition to that ruling, Judge Ronald Coen also lowered Knight's bail to $ 10 million from $ 25 million, a figure that defense lawyers called excessive. The judge also dismissed one of the two counts of hit-and-run against Knight. In all, Knight will stand trial on one count of murder, one count of attempted murder and one count of hit-and-run, the judge ruled after holding a two-day preliminary hearing this week that ended Thursday. Knight, 49, faces up to life in prison if convicted. Knight suffers diabetes and blot clots, and the case has clearly strained him : He collapsed in court last month after learning of the $ 25 million bail and he was taken to the hospital for treatment. Knight was in court Thursday. At the end of hearing, he turned around and looked at his family in the gallery, and he smiled to his fiancee as deputies led him handcuffed out of the courtroom. In a press conference after the hearing, fiancee Toi Kelly said regarding Knight's health that he is ``doing much better.''. The judge dismissed the other hit-and-run count because California law says no more than one charge of hit-and-run should be brought against a defendant when the same weapon, in this case the vehicle Knight was driving, is used against several people. Knight is accused of running over two men, killing one of them, during an argument. Killed was Terry Carter, 55. The survivor is Cle Sloan, 51, who in testimony this week declined to identify Knight as his attacker because Sloan doesn't want to be a ``snitch'' who sends Knight to prison, according to CNN affiliates KABC and KTLA. Prosecutors offered Sloan immunity, but he still refused to testify against Knight on Monday, the affiliates reported. The deadly incident happened on January 29, after a flare-up on the set of the biopic ``Straight Outta Compton,'' a film about the highly influential and controversial rap group N.W.A. The alleged argument spilled over to the parking lot of Tam's Burgers in Compton. At the time, Knight was out on bail in a separate robbery case. The hit-and-run was captured on videotape and allegedly shows Knight inside a red truck. In the video, the truck pulls into the entrance of the Compton restaurant, and he is then approached by Sloan, who was working security on the site. The two men appear to talk for a few moments, with Knight still in his vehicle. Suddenly, the vehicle backs up, knocking Sloan to the ground. While still in reverse, the truck moves out of range of the security camera. The vehicle is then seen zooming forward, back into camera range, running over Sloan a second time, and then running over a second man, Carter, a former rap music label owner. Carter later died. In closing arguments prior to the judge's ruling, Knight's attorney Matthew Fletcher argued that Knight was the victim. Knight was only defending himself against Sloan, whom the defense attorney accused of possessing a gun at the time. ``Mr. Sloan is the initial and consistent aggressor,'' Knight's attorney argued. ``There's no intent to kill, there's an intent to survive.''. ``Even without a gun, we know Mr. Sloan was brave enough to attack in broad daylight,'' the defense attorney said. Fletcher added that Knight's defense was to stand his ground. Sloan ``needed immunity because he was the actual aggressor,'' Fletcher said. ``He is the person who got Terry ( Carter ) killed.''. Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney Cynthia Barnes argued, however, told the judge that Knight was engaged in ``mutual combat situation'' where he used his car as deadly weapon. If Knight ``ever had the right of self-defense, the moment he backed-up and Mr. Sloan was ran-over, he lost the right of self-defense,'' Barnes said. ``There was pre-mediation and intent when he ( Knight ) ran over him a second time.''. Knight is scheduled to be arraigned on April 30. The incident is the latest run-in with the law for Knight, who founded the wildly successful Death Row Records in 1991 and signed artists such as Snoop Doggy Dogg ( now known as Snoop Lion ) and Tupac Shakur. Knight was driving the car in which Shakur was a passenger when the rapper was shot to death in Las Vegas in 1996. Shortly afterward, Knight spent several years in prison for violating parole on assault and weapons convictions. That prison time -- along with Shakur's death, feuds between Knight and a number of rappers, and desertions by Dr. Dre, Snoop and others -- contributed to the label's bankruptcy in 2006. In August, Knight and two other people were shot while inside a celebrity-filled Sunset Strip party hosted by singer Chris Brown on the eve of the MTV Video Music Awards.
( CNN ) Robert Bates says he gets it, how you might wonder how a cop could confuse a pistol for a stun gun. Bates -- the Tulsa County, Oklahoma, reserve sheriff's deputy accused of manslaughter in the death of a fleeing suspect -- told NBC's ``Today'' show Friday that he used to think that, too. ``Believe me,'' he told the show in his first appearance since being charged in the April 2 death of Eric Harris, ``it can happen to anyone.''. Harris died after Bates shot him -- accidentally, he says -- after calling out ``Taser ! Taser !'' in a tussle captured on a police body camera. Bates told investigators that he mistook his firearm for the stun gun. How easy is it to confuse a gun for a Taser ?. While Bates is at the center of the maelstrom over Harris' death, he isn't the only one under scrutiny. The Oklahoma NAACP wants charges against other officers involved in Harris' death, and a state and federal investigation into the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office's treatment of minorities. The sheriff's office also finds itself fending off allegations that supervisors were told to forge Bates' training records. In his interview Friday with ``Today,'' Bates said he had the documentation to show he had completed the necessary training required of reserve deputies. ``That is absolutely the truth. I have it in writing,'' he told the show. And on Thursday, a sheriff's office official denied to the Tulsa World newspaper that any records had ever been forged. As an advanced reserve deputy, sheriff's office policy calls for Bates to have completed 480 hours of the field training officer program, according to the Tulsa World. Bates would also have needed firearms certification training. Officials have yet to locate records showing what training Bates completed, said Maj. Shannon Clark of the sheriff's office. But Clark did say it's possible that some training requirements may have been waived. Sheriff Stanley Glanz has the authority to waive any department policies, Clark said. ``The policies within our organization are signed off by the sheriff, but there are also policies that give the sheriff the ability to waive any policy within our organization. That's part of being a sheriff's office,'' Clark told the newspaper. Glanz told KFAQ radio this week that officials can't find records of Bates' firearms certification. The instructor who provided that training is now a U.S. Secret Service agent, and officials haven't been able to locate training records she was supposed to have turned in, Glanz told the station. Other discrepancies have surfaced about training that Bates claims to have attended, including questions about active shooter and homicide investigation instruction. Tulsa World reporter Dylan Goforth said the paper had been told by multiple sources that Bates' records had been falsified. The newspaper has not said who allegedly asked the supervisors to falsify the training records or why. But the orders apparently started years ago, ``back when ( Bates ) was trying to get on as a deputy,'' reporter Ziva Branstetter told CNN's ``New Day.''. Bates has donated equipment to the department and was also a donor to Glanz's re-election campaign, leading to allegations he had essentially paid to be a cop. He rejected that claim in the ``Today'' interview as ``unbelievably unfair.''. Bates' attorney, Clark Brewster, also has rejected the allegations of poor training or forgery as unfounded. He said those making the accusations include fired sheriff's office employees represented by the law firm that also represents Harris' family. ``His training is extensive and certainly adequate,'' Brewster told CNN on Thursday. Bates appeared on the ``Today'' show with his wife, two daughters and Brewster. He seemed composed but said he was still might be in shock over what had happened. ``I can tell you it stayed with me for a number of days,'' Bates said. ``I'm not at all sure it's not still with me today. Lack of sleep, inability to concentrate, all of those plus more. You know, I still can't believe it happened.''. In describing the events leading up to Harris' death, Bates said he was parked several blocks away from the site where an undercover deputy was conducting a sting operation to catch Harris in the act of illegally selling a gun. Bates said he had participated in ``several hundred'' such operations but always in a backup role where he would come in and ``clean up'' after deputies, taking photos and notes. But as deputies rolled up to arrest him after the sale, Harris bolted from the vehicle and ran toward Bates' position. As deputies were trying to subdue Harris, Bates told investigators he saw an opportunity to use his stun gun to help get the suspect under control. ``I yelled, `Taser ! Taser !' as required in training. The deputy below me ducked, he pulled away from it so that I could,'' Bates said. ``The laser light is the same on each weapon. I saw the light and I squeezed the trigger,'' Bates told ``Today.''. The result was not the staccato click of a well-deployed stun gun. Instead, it was a gunshot. ``I shot him ! I'm sorry !'' Bates is heard emotionally saying on video of the incident. Bates apologized to Harris' family, who have rejected allegations he was violent and on drugs. Harris' brother, Andre Harris, said this week that he didn't think the shooting was racially motivated. Instead, he said, ``This is simply evil.''. But Bates, who is charged with second-degree manslaughter, said he didn't mean to kill Harris. His attorney has called it an ``excusable homicide.''. ``I rate this as No. 1 on my list of things in my life that I regret,'' said Bates, who is free on $ 25,000 bail.
( CNN ) As thousands of South Africans took to the streets of the city of Durban to rally against violence and xenophobia, an online community has joined the protests. The marches follow recent violent attacks on foreigners in the country that have claimed five lives. During the protest march Thursday, Twitter followers voiced their support through hashtag campaigns. #PeaceMarch and #SayNoToXenophobia were some of the most popular. South African Police Services said more than 10,000 people attended the march, including civil rights groups and nongovernmental organizations. Hashtags are now pouring out of South Africa. But many are asking, some via Twitter, is it enough to fight #xenophobia ?. Attacks this week in Durban alone have killed two immigrants and three South Africans, including a 14-year-old boy, authorities said. For South African Tim Flack, tweeting wasn't going to make a bit of difference. Flack, who lives in Cape Town, has brought allegations of hate speech and human rights violations against Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini, who he said referred to foreigners as ``lice'' and has said ``they should pack their bags and go.''. ``People listen to him,'' Flack said. ``He is a monarch. The Zulu people in South Africa take him very seriously, they don't question what he says.''. Flack said he was motivated to make the allegations after seeing multiple complaints about xenophobic violence on social media and thinking they weren't enough. So he filed a complaint with the South African Human Rights Commission, and then tweeted about it. ``The activists sit around feeling accomplished because they retweeted five times,'' Flack said. ``I want to reach people who see that they can lay a charge and it won't cost them anything, but I will have done something to change the country and push it into a better state of being.''. Now, the Human Rights Commission must decide whether to investigate Flack's allegations against the King, who denies fueling any violence. Flack hopes others will also make complaints. Flack added that Zulus aren't the only people in South Africa who share in the xenophobic sentiment. ``People are frustrated and unemployed, and people in South Africa pay foreign nationals a lot less,'' he said of the tension between nationals and immigrants. ``A domestic worker would ask for 250 rand a day to clean a house, whereas a foreign national would ask for 150 rand, so it causes resentment.''. Imtiaz Sooliman, founder and chairman of the Gift of Givers Foundation in Durban, doesn't think most South Africans are against foreigners. ``South Africans are against xenophobia,'' said Sooliman, who insists the majority of the country is providing an overwhelming amount of support for foreign nationals. Gift of Givers has been administering assistance at five refugee camps set up by the South African government that now hold roughly 8,000 foreign national refugees, he said, passing out things like clothing and hygiene packs. The organization posts its work at the camps online and tags it on social media with #xenophobia. Why ?. ``In South Africa, everyone knows xenophobia,'' Sooliman said, ``and the way a disaster agency works is we post what people understand. So if you say #tsunami or #war, people follow it. So here, people say #xenophobia, and they all know what it is -- it is a disaster, so you are going to post what people understand.''. He said South Africans also have been going to the camps, which are on sports fields with makeshift tents, bringing cooked food and other necessities. ``This is different from what happened in 2008,'' Sooliman said. That year, scores were killed in attacks in the poorest areas of Johannesburg. Most of the victims were Zimbabweans who had fled repression and dire economic circumstances. Sooliman said that along with the government strongly condemning the violence, community engagement is happening now as it never happened before. It is a kind of national unity that can be best summed up with another hashtag that has emerged from this story : #WeAreAfrica. Only time, or, tweets will tell if it works.
Panama City Beach, Florida ( CNN ) A third person has been arrested in the case of an alleged spring break gang rape that was videotaped on a crowded stretch of Panama City Beach, the Bay County, Florida, Sheriff's Office said Wednesday. Police arrested the suspect at 11 p.m. Tuesday. ``After developing information that George Davon Kennedy was the third suspect seen in the video of the gang rape, BCSO Investigators obtained a warrant for his arrest,'' according to a news release. Investigators discovered that Kennedy had family in DeKalb County, Georgia, and reached out to the sheriff's office there. Deputies in DeKalb, in the Atlanta area, tracked down Kennedy and arrested him on a charge of sexual assault by multiple perpetrators, the Bay County Sheriff's Office said. Kennedy is from Murfreesboro, Tennessee, and has been a student at Middle Tennessee State University, the sheriff's office said. Previously, Ryan Calhoun and Delonte Martistee were arrested and charged with sexual battery by multiple perpetrators, the sheriff's office said. Calhoun was released Saturday after posting $ 50,000 bond ; Martistee remains in Bay County Jail, a county deputy said. Troy University in Alabama said the two are students and have been ``placed on temporary suspension from school per the university's standards of conduct and disciplinary procedures. Martistee, a member of the track and field team, has also been removed from the team.''. Martistee is represented by a public defender. Calhoun's legal representation is unclear. No public statement has been made on either's behalf. The arrests come after a woman told police she may have been drugged and gang-raped on a beach behind a popular club in broad daylight as bystanders watched. The woman didn't recall the assault, police say, but she saw the video of her alleged assault on the news, and though the footage had to be blurred, she recognized her tattoos and contacted authorities. It's not the first time this has happened to a young woman in Panama City Beach, authorities say. Four young men were involved in the assault, Bay County Sheriff Frank McKeithen said, and while he previously said federal marshals were trying to track down a third suspect and investigators were seeking a possible witness, it's unclear if the person arrested Tuesday was someone the police had been looking for. ``There's hundreds, hundreds of people standing there -- watching, looking, seeing, hearing what's going on,'' McKeithen said. ``And yet our culture and our society and our young people have got to the point where obviously this is acceptable somewhere. I will tell you it is not acceptable in Bay County.''. Authorities have said they plan to interview the woman and show her the full video to see whether she knows the attackers and can help identify other suspects, said Ruth Corley, spokeswoman for the sheriff's office. Authorities are pressing charges, and the woman plans to cooperate, Corley said. Investigators were to meet with her this week. After interviewing witnesses, Bay County investigators determined the alleged rape took place between March 10 and March 12, behind Spinnaker Beach Club, a popular bar and dance club for spring breakers. She ``does not remember the assault at all,'' Corley said. ``She remembers taking a drink from a CamelBak and there is a strong possibility she was drugged.'' ( CamelBak sells various products for transporting water or other drinks. ). She was visiting Panama City Beach at the time of the assault, and is now home, authorities said. The Troy, Alabama, Police Department found the video during the course of an investigation into an unrelated shooting and turned it over to the Bay County Sheriff's Office. The video shows suspects pushing the victim's hand aside and holding her legs down, Corley said. ``You can see in the video there are people two feet away. They were assaulting her, and we believe the people around her knew she was being assaulted.''. The suspects can be heard commenting about what they are doing to her, Corley said. Authorities have three sworn statements from witnesses stating that the assault happened, Corley said. The sheriff's office released part of the video to local TV stations, which blurred portions of it before airing. CNN is showing part of what was released. While the video is ``one of the most disgusting, repulsive, sickening things that I've seen this year on Panama City Beach,'' it's not an isolated incident, McKeithen said. ``This is not the first video we've recovered. It's not the second video. It's not the third video. There's a number of videos we've recovered with things similar to this, and I can only imagine how many things we haven't recovered.''. Corley said that through social media, ``we have been able to find video of girls, incoherent and passed out, and almost like they are drugged, being assaulted on the beaches of Panama City in front of a bunch of people standing around.''. About 100,000 spring break revelers come to the beach community every year. This year, the Bay County Sheriff's Office made more than 1,000 arrests for various crimes -- about triple the number of arrests made in the same period last year. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Josh Levs and Alexandra Field contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A measles outbreak that affected more than 130 Californians since December is over, the California Department of Public Health declared Friday. It has been 42 days since the last known case of B3 strain of measles, the equivalent of two successive incubation periods, said Dr. Karen Smith, director of the health department. The department said in its latest update that 131 people came down with the B3 strain, and five who had a different genotype than the outbreak strain. Of the 131 cases, the state was able to obtain the vaccination status for 81 patients. Of the 81, 70 % were unvaccinated. ``Prompt investigation of cases, interviewing hundreds of contacts of infected people, vaccinating hundreds of at risk people, and increasing awareness among health care providers about measles, helped to control this outbreak,'' Smith said. The outbreak began with dozens of visitors to two Disney theme parks in the state. The health department said 42 of the cases occurred from December 17-20. Two patients with rashes have been identified in April, but they have a different measles genotype. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on its website that 19 different strains have been discovered since 1990. Measles is a highly contagious respiratory disease. It causes fever, red and sore eyes, runny nose, cough and a rash. It can cause deadly health complications, including pneumonia and encephalitis. It is spread by contact with an infected person through coughing or sneezing. It can remain in the air and on surfaces for up to two hours. CNN's Debra Goldschmidt contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It would be easy to laugh off Vin Diesel's prediction that his film ``Furious 7'' will win an Oscar next year, but not for the reason you might think. After all, the actor was serious when he recently told Variety ``It will probably win best picture at the Oscars, unless the Oscars don't want to be relevant ever.''. But rather than ignore it because it's a glossy, blockbuster action film, some might argue that the movie goes against type for Academy Award nominated films because the cast is so diverse. ``Furious 7'' hits theaters Friday, months after controversy was stirred about the lack of diversity at the Oscars. There were no actors of color nominated and no women in the directing category, which was dominated by white males. Mexican filmmaker Alejandro Gonzalez Iñarritu went on to win best director for ``Birdman.''. The lack of diversity was so glaring ( even with the mostly black cast of the movie ``Selma,'' which received a nomination for best picture ) that it spurred the Twitter hashtag'' #OscarsSoWhite.''. In contrast, ``Furious 7'' couldn't be more racially and ethnically inclusive. The cast includes Dwayne ``The Rock'' Johnson -- a Samoan/black man -- black actors Christopher ``Ludacris'' Bridges and Tyrese Gibson, Hispanic performer Michelle Rodriguez, Thai martial artist Tony Jaa, Beninese expatriate Djimon Hounsou and the late Paul Walker, a blue-eyed, blond-haired California native. The filmmakers even went so far as to make sure casting directors in Abu Dhabi and Dubai, where key scenes were filmed, found diverse extras. ``We were mainly looking for the diverse look of the ( United Arab Emirates ),'' Miranda Davidson, owner of the casting company, told The National. ``They really wanted to make sure we reflected the international feel of the country.''. Almost since the beginning, the ``Fast and Furious'' films have had a diverse focus and appeal. The band of street racers, which encompassed white, black, Asian, Hispanic, male and female and bond as a family, has done well at the box office with each iteration. In 2011, then Boston Globe film critic Wesley Morris wrote, ``Go on and laugh your Benetton, Kumbaya, Kashi, quinoa laugh, but it's true : The most progressive force in Hollywood today is the `Fast and Furious' movies.''. ``They're loud, ludicrous, and visually incoherent,'' he said. ``They're also the last bunch of movies you'd expect to see in the same sentence as `incredibly important.' But they are -- if only because they feature race as a fact of life as opposed to a social problem or an occasion for self-congratulation. ( And this doesn't even account for the gay tension between the male leads, and the occasional crypto-lesbian make-out. )''. According to the Motion Picture Association of America's 2014 Theatrical Market Statistics Report, while Hispanics make up 17 % of the U.S. population they account for 25 % of frequent moviegoers. Likewise, women make up 52 % of moviegoers. Entertainment Weekly points out that the film franchise is doing a much better job of reflecting its audience than others in Hollywood. ``Despite the films' cumulative worldwide gross of almost $ 2.4 billion, their racial inclusiveness remains an outlier ; American movies are still overwhelmingly white,'' EW's Chris Lee writes. ``According to UCLA's 2015 Hollywood Diversity Report, a mere 16.7 % of 2013 films starred minorities in lead roles.''. At least one moviegoer tweeted that he appreciated the effort. Diesel told EW the franchise has come a long way from the original 2001 film, which featured segregated gangs of racers pitted against each other. ``It doesn't matter what nationality you are,'' the star said. ``As a member of the audience, you realize you can be a member of that `family.' That's the beautiful thing about how the franchise has evolved.''
( CNN ) A natural gas line explosion at a law enforcement shooting range in Fresno, California, injured 11 people, including some inmates who were on a work detail there. Others being treated include a county road worker and two sheriff's deputies, Fresno County Sheriff Margaret Mims said. The exact cause of Friday's blast is under investigation, Mims said, but it happened at the spot where a county worker was operating a front loader. The explosion sparked a fire that roared like a jet engine, Mims said. The operator of the front loader was injured but able to walk to an ambulance, the sheriff said. The most serious injuries were suffered by a group of inmates who were assigned to maintenance and cleaning work at the sheriff's firing range. There were 10 inmates near the blast site who were also injured, officials said. Three other inmates at the site were not hurt. Earlier, the sheriff's office included them in the injury count. After the blast, Mims said, two sheriff's deputies who were at the firing range ran toward the fire to move the injured. CNN affiliate KFSN posted a video of the scene that shows a tall ball of fire rising from near a highway. One inmate was airlifted to the hospital, the sheriff said. That inmate and the county worker were undergoing emergency surgery, she said. The others suffered mostly burns. The pair of deputies who provided aid also went for treatment for ringing ears and sunburn-like conditions, she said. Firefighters put out the blaze, revealing a crater at the blast site and a blackened front loader, Mims said.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) A trailer for Zack Snyder's upcoming ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice'' leaked online on Thursday before quickly being taken down minutes later. A YouTube user uploaded the handheld or camera phone capture of the trailer, which had Spanish subtitles on the screen. The trailer begins with a commentator's voice asking, ``Is it really surprising that the most powerful man in the world should be a figure of controversy ?''. As footage of Superman plays, numerous commentators' voices overlap one another with their opinions of the superheroes, including ``We as a population on this planet have been looking for a savior'' and ``Maybe he's just a guy trying to do the right thing.''. Ryan Gosling in talks to star in ``Blade Runner'' sequel. A blurred image of Ben Affleck's face appears shortly before a masked Batman appears, followed by the two superheroes coming face to face. The highly anticipated footage was set to premiere in Imax theaters on Monday. On Wednesday morning, Snyder teased the trailer by releasing a short excerpt on Twitter. ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice'' will be released on March 25, 2016 and stars Affleck as Batman and Henry Cavill as Superman. The film also stars Amy Adams. How much it costs to get Mark Hamill's autograph at ``Star Wars'' celebration. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) No identification, no Social Security card and only a box to live on. John Helinski was homeless and nameless for three years. Suddenly, he's set to buy his own place and collect a nice pension. Helinski hit it big thanks to the Social Security Administration, and a big-hearted cop and a case worker determined to untangle major bureaucracy. Charles Inman could not bear to see his 62-year-old ward land back on the street, he told CNN affiliate WFTS. The shelter where the case worker works set Helinski up with a bunk and a locker. But getting him into the system was hard, because Helinski's ID and Social Security cards had been stolen. ``He needed to have an identification, but we couldn't get an identification without a birth certificate,'' Inman said. A hassle all by itself, except that Helinski was foreign born -- in Poland, as an American citizen. ``We first had to figure out that we needed a consular record of foreign birth or something like that,'' said Tampa police Officer Dan McDonald, who pitched in to help Helinski. With those papers squared away, he and Inman got Helinski a driver's license and a Social Security card. Then, Helinski remembered that he used to have an account with a certain Landmark Bank. ``Then it became Bank of America,'' he said. The account was still there, and the Social Security Administration hadn't forgotten about him. It had kept paying Helinski benefits for years, and they had stacked up high. Now Helinski is thinking of buying his own four walls. And he'll have monthly benefits to live on. ``I guess I'm exhilarated, excited, you know,'' he said. McDonald said he and Inman were stunned. ``We weren't quite sure what to say.''
New York ( CNN ) A suburban New York cardiologist has been charged in connection with a failed scheme to have another physician hurt or killed, according to prosecutors. Dr. Anthony Moschetto, 54, pleaded not guilty Wednesday to criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson, criminal prescription sale and weapons charges in connection to what prosecutors called a plot to take out a rival doctor on Long Island. He was released after posting $ 2 million bond and surrendering his passport. Two other men -- identified as James Chmela, 43, and James Kalamaras, 41 -- were named as accomplices, according to prosecutors. They pleaded not guilty in Nassau County District Court, according to authorities. Both were released on bail. Requests for comment from attorneys representing Moschetto and Chmela were not returned. It's unclear whether Kalamaras has retained an attorney. Moschetto's attorney, Randy Zelin, said Wednesday that his client ``will be defending himself vigorously,'' the New York Post reported. ``Doctors are supposed to ensure the health and wellbeing of people, but Dr. Moschetto is alleged to have replaced that responsibility with brazen, callous and criminal acts,'' Acting Nassau District Attorney Madeline Singas said in a statement. Police officers allegedly discovered approximately 100 weapons at Moschetto's home, including hand grenades, high-capacity magazines and knives. Many of the weapons were found in a hidden room behind a switch-activated bookshelf, according to prosecutors. The investigation began back in December, when undercover officers began buying heroin and oxycodone pills from Moschetto in what was initially a routine investigation into the sale of prescription drugs, officials said. During the course of the undercover operation, however, Moschetto also sold the officers two semiautomatic assault weapons as well as ammunition, prosecutors said. Moschetto allegedly told officers during one buy that he needed dynamite to ``blow up a building.'' He later said he no longer needed the dynamite because a friend was setting fire to the building instead. Kalamaras and Chmela are believed to have taken part in the arson, according to prosecutors. ``The fire damaged but did not destroy the office of another cardiologist whose relationship with Dr. Moschetto had soured due to a professional dispute,'' according to the statement from the district attorney's office. Moschetto allegedly gave an informant and undercover detective blank prescriptions and cash for the assault and killing of the fellow cardiologist, according to prosecutors. He also requested that the rival's wife be assaulted if she happened to be present, authorities said. ``He was willing to pay $ 5,000 to have him beaten and put in a hospital for a few months, and then he said he would pay $ 20,000 to have him killed,'' said Assistant District Attorney Anne Donnelly, reported CNN affiliate WCBS. The three men are to appear in Nassau County District Court on Friday.
( CNN ) Deputies rushed Kenneth Morgan Stancil III from court Thursday after the 20-year-old murder suspect swore at a judge and tried to flip over a table. Stancil is accused of killing an employee Monday at Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina. Relatives have said victim Ron Lane was gay, CNN affiliate WNCN reported, and investigators are looking into whether the shooting was a hate crime. Authorities arrested Stancil after he was found sleeping on a Florida beach on Tuesday. Just a few minutes into Thursday's hearing on the first-degree murder charge he faces, Stancil snapped back at the judge after he was offered a court-appointed lawyer. ``No, I don't need one,'' said Stancil, who stood before the judge with his legs shackled and his arms handcuffed in front of him. ``You know what I'm saying ? I knew I would get life anyway.''. Superior Court Judge Arnold O. Jones interjected, pointing out that the maximum sentence Stancil faces is the death penalty. ``Yes, I know that,'' Stancil fired back. ``But when I knew what I had to do and I knew when I got caught, you know, I knew in my mind that I could get life, I could get the death penalty. You know what I'm saying ? Do you follow my topic ? I would have killed you, you know what I'm saying, if you're a f -- ing child molester.''. The judge told him not to swear. ``I don't give a f -- what you want,'' Stancil said, lunging forward and lifting up the table in front of him. Deputies quickly corralled him and hustled him from the courtroom. The hearing resumed about 25 minutes later, when Stancil was brought back into the courtroom, this time with his arms handcuffed behind him. When asked again by Jones whether he wanted a lawyer, his response was quick -- and calm. ``Yes, sir,'' he said. In an interview with CNN affiliate WRAL, Stancil described himself as a neo-Nazi and said he hates gay people ``with a passion.''. Stancil had worked for Lane, the school's print shop operator, as part of a work-study program, but was let go from the program in early March because of poor attendance, college officials said. During the interview, and during a court appearance in Florida on Tuesday, Stancil said Lane deserved to die, accusing him of being a child molester who'd made advances in online messages to Stancil's 16-year-old brother. Lane's family has described those accusations as untrue and slanderous. His cousin, Steve Smith, told WRAL that Lane never made sexual advances toward children or anyone with whom he worked. He described him as a loving man who was dedicated to family and friends. ``Yes, Ron was gay. But people need to get over it,'' Smith said. ``That's between him and the Lord, him and his savior.''
( CNN ) Remains of up to nearly 400 unaccounted for service members tied to the USS Oklahoma at Pearl Harbor will be exhumed this year, the Defense Department announced Tuesday. The hope is that most of the battleship's sailors and Marines can be identified. ``The secretary of defense and I will work tirelessly to ensure your loved one's remains will be recovered, identified, and returned to you as expeditiously as possible, and we will do so with dignity, respect and care,'' Deputy Secretary of Defense Bob Work said in a statement. ``While not all families will receive an individual identification, we will strive to provide resolution to as many families as possible.''. The USS Oklahoma sank when it was hit by torpedoes on December 7, 1941, during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. A total of 429 sailors and Marines on the ship were killed. Thirty-five crew members were positively identified and buried in the years immediately after the attack, according to the Defense Department. By 1950, all unidentified remains were laid to rest as unknowns at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. In 2003, five more service members were identified, with the help of historical evidence from Pearl Harbor survivor Ray Emory, 93. Emory, a native of Peoria, Illinois, was serving as a seaman first class on the light cruiser USS Honolulu that fateful day. After the war, Emory worked in Washington state before moving to Hawaii about 30 years ago. The retiree made it his mission to ensure graves are properly identified. ``It's something I looked forward to for a long time,'' he told CNN about Tuesday's announcement. Speaking by phone from Honolulu, Emory said that proper identification means a lot to the families of those who lost loved ones -- and to him. Next of kin were being notified starting Tuesday. Service members who are identified will be returned to their families for burial, with full military honors. WWII pilot, 99, reunited with historic C-47 plane. CNN's Phil Gast contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Thousands of Syrian and Palestinian refugees trapped in the Yarmouk refugee camp have suffered what can only be described as untold indignities. But while the story is in itself tragic, it is the individual lives at the heart of the camp that make the imperative for humanitarian action so compelling. I encountered two such individuals on my mission to Damascus -- Jihad and Mohammad -- tiny, vulnerable infants who were taken from Yarmouk in recent days, a place that was described last week by the U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon as ``the deepest circle of hell.'' The fact that they are alive truly make them miracle children. Looking into those bright young faces, touching their pristine hands, the logic of our humanitarian mandate -- the mission to protect -- never felt stronger to me. Like the wider Syrian conflict, Yarmouk has a human face ; the faces of young Mohammad and young Jihad. I want to introduce you to them in the hope that you, too, will understand why I am firmly convinced that turning away is not an option -- and why the international community must act in a concerted manner to respond to the many tragedies in Syria. Jihad Ya `qoub, the youngest Palestinian refugee to flee Yarmouk, was born on March 30. His mother, Said Fatima, never imagined bringing a child into this world could be so tough. ``I was hoping to drink milk and eat eggs during my pregnancy, but our financial situation did allow us to buy these expensive food items,'' she said. Said Fatima was living in a community where the average person survived on just 400 calories a day. Mohammad was born in Yarmouk on January 25 of this year. When ISIS -- Islamic State of Iraq and Syria -- entered the camp and tensions heightened, his mother, Nadia, fled in search of safety. Her only thoughts were to save the life of her newborn son. Yet she has not lost hope in the possibility of a dignified future. She hopes that if and when life returns to normal, she will be able to live once more with her husband and son in the family home in Yarmouk. These tales of courage and human dignity are a lesson for us all. When I next brief the Security Council, as I did a few days ago, I will tell them about Jihad and Mohammad. I will continue to press the case for humanitarian access to other children like them inside Yarmouk, other civilians who need help where they are. To do this, hostilities will have to subside. Pressure must be exerted on armed actors in Yarmouk to this end. Beyond that, those civilians wishing to temporarily leave must be allowed to do so safely. These things are all possible. But it takes the necessary political will -- nothing more, nothing less. Yarmouk must be a place where the politics of the possible begin to take hold. I believe they can. Because to abandon such belief would be to abandon Jihad, Mohammad and thousands of other civilians like them. And that is simply not an option.
Garissa, Kenya ( CNN ) The desks of the small Madrassa are empty. Its 573 students, all male, are staying home after Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta announced three days of national mourning following last week's deadly attack at a nearby university. Only a few kilometers away, 147 people -- mostly students -- were brutally massacred when Al-Shabaab militants invaded the campus in Garissa, a town in northeastern Kenya. We've come to this particular Islamic religious school because the man suspected by Kenyan authorities of being the ``mastermind'' behind the atrocity -- Mohamed Mohamud -- once taught here. ``He was someone who was very quiet, he didn't like too much talk,'' recalls Sheikh Khalif Abdi Hussein, the principal at the Madrassa. He says he also taught with Mohamud for two years. ``When he left the Madrassa, he joined Al-Shabaab. But before, he was normal, just like me and other people.''. What worries authorities here is exactly that -- Mohamud was Kenyan. But now, say officials, Mohamud is in command of an Al-Shabaab militia based near Kenya's long, porous border with Somalia -- about 118 miles ( 190km ) from Garissa -- who are believed to be responsible for numerous cross-border attacks into Kenya. The Islamist militant group, who are allied with al Qaeda, have been waging a bloody campaign for control of Somalia. With Kenyan troops part of an African Union force deployed in support of Somalia's United Nations-supported government, Kenya has now become a target. Last year, an attack by Al-Shabaab on a shopping center in the country's capital, Nairobi, claimed the lives of 68 people. Now Mohamud stands accused of being behind Thursday's attack -- the deadliest attack in the nation since al Qaeda killed more than 200 people at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi in 1998. But Mohamud is not Kenya's only homegrown terrorist. The Kenyan Interior Ministry has said at least one of the four gunmen who carried out the attack on the university was also Kenyan. Abdirahim Abdullahi was in his 20s and the son of a government chief. His father says he lost contact with his son in 2013, shortly after he left university. The Kenyan government is concerned that Al-Shabaab is recruiting disaffected youth from inside the country. ``Our task of countering terrorism has been made all the more difficult by the fact that the planners and financiers of this brutality are deeply embedded in our communities,'' President Kenyatta said during an address to the nation in the aftermath of the massacre. Meanwhile, Sheikh Khalif insists his Madrassa has nothing to do with Mohamud's extreme, violent ideas. ``This man is a dangerous man, a killer, a criminal,'' he says. But he was also once a neighbor. And so Kenyans must now look within to tackle this very real threat to the country's -- and the region's -- stability.
( CNN ) ISIS claimed responsibility for a suicide car bomb attack Friday near the U.S. Consulate in the Kurdish Iraqi city of Irbil, according to several Twitter accounts linked to the terror group. The U.S. Consulate was the target of the attack, ISIS said. At least four people were killed and 18 injured, police said. All U.S. Consulate personnel were safe and accounted for following the explosion, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said. Irbil is the capital of Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government. Police said the incident began with an explosion of a small improvised bomb in the area. After that blast, a car moved in the direction of the consulate. Security personnel fired at the car, which exploded but did not reach the consulate, a police official said. It appeared that people inside the car detonated explosives that the vehicle was carrying, according to the police official. A separate official, B.G. Hazhar Ismail, said three civilians were killed and five others were injured. Ismail is a spokesman for the Peshmerga, the force that defends Iraq's Kurdish region. The blast sent a huge fireball into the sky on a street parallel to the consulate. Dark smoke filled the air, and gunfire was heard intermittently for the next hour. One witness said he saw attackers in a gunbattle with consulate security and police. Helicopters circled the neighborhood where the blast occurred, and a loudspeaker at the consulate building warned people to stay indoors and away from windows. In addition to the U.S. Consulate, the blast occurred immediately across the street from a strip of bars, cafes and shops popular with expats and consulate employees. The State Department thanked the response by the Kurdish government and will investigate the bombing together with them. ``The United States will continue to stand with the people of the Iraqi Kurdistan Region and all Iraqis as we work together in confronting these terrorist acts and towards our shared goal of degrading and defeating ( ISIS ),'' the department said in a statement. CNN's Kareem Khadder and Jason Hanna and journalist Mat Wolf contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It's not easy being the Pope. Not only does he shepherd nearly 1 billion Catholic souls, he also leads a small but morally significant state with envoys and interests in nearly every country. As scholars like to say, the Vatican has walked the line between spiritual and worldly concerns for centuries. Sometimes, as when St. John Paul II stood up to Communist Poland, the church's moral and political clout have combined to pack a powerful punch. At other times, popes have to make a hard choice : Adopt the sharp tongue of a prophet or the discretion of a diplomat ?. This Sunday in Rome, Pope Francis faced just such a dilemma. First, the back story :. One hundred years ago, more than 1 million Armenians ( some estimates run as high as 1.5 million ) died at the hand of the Turks. Many of the victims were part of a branch of Christianity closely aligned with Catholicism. A slew of historians and at least 20 countries call the killings a ``genocide.'' ( A U.S. resolution to do the same has languished in Congress. ) Turkish officials disagree, arguing that the deaths, while unfortunate, were part of a long-running war that witnessed casualties on all sides. For their part, previous popes had finessed the genocide question. John Paul II used the ``g'' word in 2001, but didn't dare speak it out loud. Instead, it was tucked into a document signed by the former pontiff and the head of the Armenian church, after they had celebrated Mass together. Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI called the killings ``a great evil'' and ``terrible persecution'' in a speech 2006, but avoided labeling them genocide. ( Benedict found other ways to tick off the Turks, initially opposing their entry into the European Union. ). As Pope Francis prepared to celebrate a special Mass Sunday to commemorate a century since the slaughter, Vatican watchers were divided about whether he would use the word ``genocide.''. He did, but in a roundabout way, by quoting John Paul's document. ``In the past century, our human family has lived through three massive and unprecedented tragedies,'' Francis said. ``The first, which is widely considered `the first genocide of the 20th century,' struck your own Armenian people.''. The middle phrase comes directly from the document issued 14 years ago by John Paul. In citing his predecessor, Francis highlighted one of the Vatican's chiefest concerns, especially on matters of moral import : continuity. Whether holding the line against artificial birth control, declining to ordain female priests or dealing with diplomatic tensions, it sometimes seems as if the church considers inconsistency the most unforgivable of sins. ``The Vatican and the papacy love continuity,'' said the Rev. Thomas Reese, a Vatican analyst for National Catholic Reporter. If Francis had not called the Armenian killings a genocide, particularly at such a high-profile event -- the audience included Armenia's President -- it might have been interpreted as a change in church policy, Reese said. At the same time, Francis didn't want to anger the Turks more than necessary, especially since they have become a key ally against the persecution of Christians by ISIS in the Middle East, which the Pope alluded to in his speech on Sunday. ``The fact that he quoted John Paul is a sign that he's downplaying it,'' Reese said of the Armenian murders. ``He's telling people : There's nothing new here.''. New or not, Turkey was not happy. The nation recalled its Vatican ambassador for ``consultations'' just hours after Francis' comments, the Turkish Foreign Ministry said. Turkey also promptly summoned his counterpart, the Vatican's ambassador, for a meeting, Turkish state broadcaster TRT reported. In a tweet Sunday, Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu called the Pope's use of the word ``unacceptable'' and ``out of touch with both historical facts and legal basis.''. ``Religious authorities are not places through which hatred and animosity are fueled by unfounded allegations,'' the tweet reads. ``Hatred'' and ``animosity'' are not words often used to describe Pope Francis. Because he often shines a sympathetic face on the world, emphasizing mercy over judgment, it's easy to miss the bluntness Francis brings to the bully pulpit. On matters of doctrine and diplomacy, he may be carrying on Catholic traditions, but in his willingness to engage in geopolitics and the tone that engagement often takes, this pope is decidedly different. He has helped broker a backroom detente between the United States and Cuba, and invited Israeli and Palestinian leaders for an unprecedented prayer service at the Vatican ( after annoying some Israelis with an impromptu prayer at the wall that separates the West Bank from Jerusalem. ). But Francis has also suggested that force may be justified to stop ISIS' slaughter of Christians, warned of the ``Mexicanization'' of Argentina and said that satirists who insult religion should expect a retaliatory punch. On Monday, the Pope addressed a roomful of priests at morning Mass. He must have heard the hubbub about his ``genocide'' remark, but he encouraged his charges to speak frankly, without fear, and to bear the courage of their convictions, just as the early apostles had. ``We can not keep silent about what we have seen and heard,'' Francis said. CNN's Gul Tuysuz and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Han and Chewie are back. An ESPN reporter went on a regrettable rant. And we all taxed our brains trying to deduce the date of Cheryl's damn birthday. Here are pop culture's most talked-about stories of the week. Producers of ``Star Wars : The Force Awakens'' unveiled a nearly two-minute trailer for the upcoming movie, arriving in December. When Harrison Ford shows up with Chewbacca at the end, you can almost hear the Internet's collective squeals. A logic problem from a Singapore math test somehow spread across the Web, leaving millions trying to figure out the hypothetical birthday of someone named Cheryl. We're guessing that most of us cheated and peeked at the answer. Who retires at age 34 ? Supermodel Gisele Bundchen, who walked what she says was her last fashion-show runway this week in her native Brazil. She'll still keep modeling, though -- and hanging out with her husband, who is apparently a football player of some kind. Oh, Britt McHenry. We all hate having our car towed. But for someone who's on air at ESPN, you don't seem to understand how to behave on camera. Speaking of McHenry, a new book by Jon Ronson explores how social media may go too far in encouraging haters to shame people who make public missteps. Ronson told CNN, ``It's so corrosive to create that kind of society.''. The first set of female quintuplets in the world since 1969 was born in Houston, Texas. Just imagine how fun it'll be for their parents 16 years from now when they all start dating. Fire department, I need you now. Singer Hillary Scott of country band Lady Antebellum had to vacate her tour bus when it caught fire outside of Dallas. Most of her stuff was burned, but her Bible survived. To infinity and beyond. Famed physicist Stephen Hawking, known for his sense of humor, partnered with the silly lads of Monty Python to recreate the ``Galaxy Song'' from their 1983 film ``The Meaning of Life.''. Duckie dances !. Remember Duckie from ``Pretty in Pink ?'' Of course you do. Actor Jon Cryer charmed fans on CBS's ``Late Late Show'' by reprising his character's record-store dance to Otis Redding's ``Try a Little Tenderness,'' right down to the wall-dancing and counter-bashing.
Sanaa, Yemen ( CNN ) As the transport plane comes in to land at Sanaa Airport, the deep scars of the brutal conflict tearing Yemen apart are only too clear : wrecked aircraft line the runway, and nearby buildings lie in ruins. To most of the outside world, this war-torn country is off limits, the weeks-long battle between Houthi rebels and Saudi-led coalition forces making it too dangerous to visit, and a no-fly zone rendering its international airport all but obsolete -- but on Tuesday, CNN was granted rare access on a desperate aid mission by Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund. The airport has previously been bombed. Hostilities are likely to resume before the day is out : a brief, peaceful window has been delicately negotiated following a special request from the U.N. -- but it won't last long. Unicef hopes there will be just enough time to deliver vital food and supplies, helping to ease the country's worsening humanitarian crisis. More than 100,000 Yemeni civilians have fled their homes since fighting began, and OCHA, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, estimates that 15.9 million people here are in need of assistance. The main terminal at El Rahaba Airport is under the control of the Houthi rebels. We can't get near it for fear of provoking trouble. But there is plenty to be done out on the tarmac. Within minutes of touching down, a small army of aid workers is busy unloading huge mounds of much-needed provisions. Gusts of wind blow dust across the runway, as crates and pallets of emergency nutrition and medical equipment pile up rapidly beside the plane. Unicef's team has overcome more than one hurdle just getting it this far -- now they'll have to work out how to distribute it to those most in need in a country paralyzed by a lack of resources. Even before Saudi airstrikes, most of the 25 million people in Yemen required humanitarian assistance to meet their most basic needs, according to the United Nations. As they work, an Air India plane is taxiing away from the terminal. Thousands have fled the country on evacuation flights in recent weeks as the situation in Yemen has deteriorated. But for those who have nowhere else to go and no chance of a flight out, mercy missions by Unicef and other NGOs like it are the only hope. READ MORE :' A window into hell' - desperate Yemenis flee by boatREAD MORE : Civilian catastrophe looming in YemenREAD MORE : Yemen crisis - how you can help. Bryony Jones contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson will be reinstated as an active player by the NFL on Friday, the league said. The NFL suspended the 30-year-old football star in November over allegations that last May he disciplined his son, who was 4 at the time, too harshly with a ``switch,'' or thin stick. In a letter, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell told Peterson that his continued participation in the league was contingent on a number of requirements, including that he maintain ``an ongoing program of counseling and treatment as recommended by medical advisers,'' the NFL said Thursday. Also required of Peterson : Avoiding ``any further conduct that violates the ( NFL's ) personal conduct policy or other NFL policies.''. ``Any further violation of the personal conduct policy by Peterson would result in additional discipline, which could include suspension without pay or banishment from the NFL,'' the league said in a statement. Peterson played in one game last season, a 35-6 win against St. Louis in September, before the league put him on an exempt list September 17 -- keeping him off the field with pay -- in light of his indictment that month in the case. Initially charged with felony child abuse, Peterson pleaded no contest to misdemeanor reckless assault in November in Texas. The NFL then suspended him without pay and he lost his appeal of that sanction the next month. In February, a Minnesota district court judge vacated the decision that upheld his suspension, making Peterson eligible for reinstatement. Bleacher Report : Latest details, comments, reaction. The Vikings issued a brief statement in which they said they ``look forward to Adrian rejoining the Vikings.''. ESPN reported that the team will hold voluntary offseason workouts beginning Monday. The next Vikings' organized team activities begin in late May. It is unclear whether Peterson will attend. He has been unhappy with how the Vikings have handled the matter. Though Peterson dodged jail time with his no-contest plea, he received probation, community service and a $ 4,000 fine. He also will take parenting classes. ``I truly regret this incident,'' Peterson said after accepting the deal. ``I stand here and I take full responsibility for my actions. I love my son more than any one of you can even imagine.''. Peterson is considered one of the best running backs in the NFL. In 2011 he signed a seven-year contract worth more than $ 100 million with the Vikings, who were 7-9 last season and failed to make the playoffs. In eight seasons, including last year's abbreviated year, he has rushed for 10,190 yards and averaged a strong 5.0 yards per carry. CNN's Jill Martin and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A Tulsa County reserve deputy is on administrative leave after ``inadvertently'' shooting a suspect with his gun. Police say Robert ( Bob ) Bates, 73, thought he pulled out his Taser during an arrest, but instead shot the suspect, who later died at a local hospital. The shooting happened after an apparent drug and gun selling operation by the Tulsa Violent Crimes task force Thursday. Bates, a member of the task force, was part of a group of deputies trying to arrest Eric Courtney Harris, 44, in the parking lot of a Dollar General store. Police say Harris, a convicted felon, sold undercover officers a pistol. When confronted by an arrest team, he fled the scene on foot and police say they ``observed him reaching for his waistband area.. causing concern for the deputies safety.''. After a brief pursuit, police say Harris was forced to the ground, where he continued to resist arrest and ``refused to pull his left arm from underneath his body where his hand was near his waistband.''. It was during this portion of the arrest that police say ``the reserve deputy was attempting to use less lethal force, believing he was utilizing a Taser, when he inadvertently discharged his service weapon, firing one round which struck Harris.''. Harris died at a local hospital and his cause of death is under investigation. Police say Harris admitted to medics at the scene that he may have been under the influence of Phencyclidine, a street drug commonly known as PCP. When asked if another gun was found on Harris, Shannon Clark of the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office says ``The suspect was placed in the ambulance and transported so quickly. I have not been told there was a second weapon found on him yet.''. Deputy Robert Bates, who's been placed on administrative leave during the investigation, received his reserve status from the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office in 2008 and was assigned to the violent crime task force. He had also served as a Tulsa Police officer. When asked by CNN affiliate KTUL whether age may have played a factor in the ``inadvertent'' shooting, Clark says ``did an accident happen ? Sure. But is it accredited to his age ? Or was it accredited to the rapidly evolving situation ? I guess that will be determined in the investigation.''. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Joe Sutton contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Canadian actor Jonathan Crombie, who co-starred in the ``Anne of Green Gables'' TV movies, died this week at age 48. Crombie died Wednesday from complications of a brain hemorrhage, ``Anne of Green Gables'' producer Kevin Sullivan said. ``It's a real tragedy to see someone at age 48 go like that,'' he said. ``I will remember him as someone who worked extremely hard to make the roles he played onscreen come to life.''. Based on Canadian author Lucy Maud Montgomery's children's books, ``Anne of Green Gables'' debuted in Canada on CBC TV in 1984 and became a cultural touchstone. The plot focused on the adventures of fiery orphan Anne Shirley, played by Megan Follows, who is sent to live on a farm in Prince Edward Island. Crombie played Gilbert Blythe, who evolves over time from Anne's pigtail-tugging tormentor to friend to husband. Follows and Crombie reprised the roles in the sequels ``Anne of Avonlea'' ( 1987 ) and ``Anne of Green Gables : The Continuing Story'' ( 2000 ). The movies were carried in the United States by the Disney Channel and PBS, drawing a cult following beyond Canada and extending to Japan, which made its own animated series based on the books. Crombie, son of former Toronto Mayor David Crombie, was cast in the role at 17, beating out other aspiring Canadian actors of the era, including Jason Priestly, Sullivan said. Despite his lack of acting experience, Crombie's boy-next-door looks and cool demeanor made him the perfect actor to star opposite Follows, Sullivan said. ``It was an amazing chemistry between him and Megan Follows,'' Sullivan said. ``There was a lot of affection, but they kind of grounded each other.''. The movies spawned various spinoffs, including ``Road to Avonlea,'' starring child actor Sarah Polley, and turned Anne's fictional home on Prince Edward Island into a popular tourist destination. The role made Crombie a heartthrob of his time, a sentiment expressed by many fans in the wake of his death. As one person said on Twitter, ``I don't know any female Canadian from my generation that * didn't * have at least a little bit of a crush on Jonathan Crombie as Gilbert.''. Crombie went on to play roles in other American and Canadian TV shows, including ``21 Jump Street'' and ``The Good Wife,'' but even his Facebook page acknowledges he is best known for his portrayal of Gilbert Blythe. Crombie's sister told CBC News that her brother happily answered to the name Gil when greeted by fans in public. ``I think he was really proud of being Gilbert Blythe,'' she said. ``He really enjoyed that series and was happy, very proud of it -- we all were.''. People we've lost in 2015.
( CNN ) The lawyer for Robert Bates, an Oklahoma reserve deputy who fatally shot a man he meant to subdue with a Taser, on Saturday released documents that he says verify some of Bates' training as a law enforcement officer. The documents show Bates had one Taser training class over a six-and-a-half-year period, took three firearms training classes and qualified 10 times, from 2009 to 2014, to use a handgun. His evaluations say he got along with other officers and related well with the public. ``Robert Bates has met all the requisite training required by Oklahoma to be a reserve deputy,'' said the lawyer, Scott Wood, in an interview with CNN. Read the documents. CNN could not independently confirm the documents were authentic. Wood said he got them from Bates, who asked the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office to provide his training records. The sheriff's office has turned down CNN's requests for the training documents, saying they are part of the investigation. Authorities did not reply Saturday to a request for comment on Wood's statements. The documents are important because Bates' training has become a central issue in the case. The lawyer for the family of the man who was killed claims that Bates, 73, wasn't qualified to be on the force, but received preferential treatment because he'd made donations to the agency and was a friend of the sheriff. The Tulsa World newspaper reported some supervisors in the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office were told to forge Bates' records and were reassigned when they refused. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office has denied these allegations. The documents provided to CNN cover the period from July 22, 2008, to December 12, 2014. Bates had one Taser training class, on March 4, 2009, according to a document with a heading from The Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training, which sets the standards for training peace officers in the state. Wood said the council requires only one hands-on class on use of a Taser. Bates had weapons training once in September 2008 and twice in 2009, according to sheriff's office records that Bates obtained, Wood said. He scored high enough at the pistol range 10 times from September 24, 2009, to April 9, 2014, that he was allowed to carry a handgun while on duty, Wood said. Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter in the death of Eric Harris. Friends and family of Harris gathered in Tulsa on Saturday afternoon for a visitation and viewing. Bates is free on $ 25,000 bond. He says he meant to use his Taser on Harris during the April 2 arrest but accidentally fired his handgun instead. ``I shot him ! I'm sorry !'' Bates is heard saying on video of the incident. Bates, an insurance company executive, has gone to his own defense. In an interview Friday with the ``Today'' show on NBC, Bates said he had the documentation to show he had completed the necessary training required of reserve deputies. ``That is absolutely the truth. I have it in writing,'' he told the show. Questions have already been raised about Bates' training and when his service with the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office started. In his statement to investigators, Bates said he ``became an advanced TCSO Reserve Deputy in 2007.'' Wood said Bates started working for the sheriff's office in late 2007 or 2008. But the sheriff's office has said Bates had been a reserve deputy since 2008. Bates, who worked as a police officer for one year in the 1960s, completed 300 hours of training and 1,100 hours of community policing experience since becoming a reserve deputy, according to the sheriff's office. The Tulsa World said 480 hours of field training are required to be an ``advanced'' reserve deputy, which Bates claimed to be. Questions have been raised about Bates' firearms qualifications scores. To be allowed to carry a pistol on duty, deputies need to score 72 while firing at a silhouette of a man at the firing range, Wood said. Documents with a heading ``Firearms Qualification Record'' show Bates scoring at least 72 on six different days. But firearms qualification records from four dates in 2012 and 2013 are missing for the entire sheriff's office, Wood said. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office says it can't find the records. The department's summary of Bates' weapons training shows he scored 80-84 those four times. ``If you're going to forge somebody's score why not give them a 90 or a 95,'' Wood said. CNN provided the documents to the Tulsa World. Ziva Branstetter, an editor with the newspaper, said the new information doesn't undercut the World's reporting. ``These records back up the validity of our story and we stand by our story,'' she said Saturday. Another seeming oddity of the records is how many classes Bates took on two days. The Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training records show Bates took 14 training classes worth 20 credit hours on December 10, 2013, and 20 classes worth 31 credit hours on December 11, 2014. Wood said Bates may have been cramming in his required training before the end of the year by taking computer classes. ``It's possible you could take a half-hour class and if you know the material you could finish it in 15 minutes,'' he said. Evaluations show supervisors had a good opinion of Bates. One from March 14, 2009, says of his strengths : ``Works well with his fellow officers and relates to the public very well.'' His weakness : ``Radio usage/geography.'' Remedial training : ``Does not have a lot of radio usage time which will be worked on. Will have to work on his geography skills. Both will be remedied in time !''
( CNN ) Chinese police have arrested more than 133,000 people and seized 43.3 tons of illegal narcotics during a six-month anti-drug campaign, the country's Ministry of Public Security has announced. Authorities also handled 115,000 drug-related crimes -- such as robbery -- and 606,000 cases of drug use during the nationwide campaign to ``ban drugs in hundreds of cities,'' Liu Yuejin, Assistant Minister of Public Security, said Wednesday. The figures were nearly double the same period a year earlier, while the amount of narcotics seized was up by 44.9 %, according to the ministry. Liu said drug trafficking groups have ``suffered a heavy blow'' and drug users have been ``forcefully regulated.''. However, the police also paid a price, Liu said, in quotes carried by the state-run Xinhua news agency. Nine police officers died and another 657 were wounded in the mission, with 76 severely wounded. The ministry rewarded 60 units and 100 people. Liu said China's drug-related problems were still severe, with online drug trafficking an increasing problem. He said the ministry had launched a three-month online campaign starting in April targeting people engaged in drug-related Internet crimes. Over the past nine months, a string of movie and television stars, film directors and pop singers have been arrested and charged over drug related incidents, including Jaycee Chan, son of kung fu movie star Jackie Chan, who was convicted on a drug charge and sentenced to six months in prison by a Beijing court. In August last year, dozens of management agencies representing actors and singers signed an agreement with Beijing authorities banning drug use from the entertainment industry and pledging to sack any artists who broke the law.
( CNN ) Their eyes reflect childhoods marked by tragedy. Their faces show wrinkles made deeper by pain and the passage of time. Tomasz Lazar spent hours photographing and interviewing adults who were ripped from their homes as children in the 1940s and forced to live thousands of miles away in Siberia. ``For me those faces are like maps,'' Lazar said. ``The more you look at them, the more you are discovering.''. Soviet authorities invaded Poland during World War II and deported hundreds of thousands of Poles. Some were sent to prison camps in the frozen wilderness of central Russia. Many were children. In effect, Moscow stole much of an entire generation of young Poles, a handful of whom Lazar has located seven decades later. During Lazar's interviews, many of the survivors broke down in tears. ``It was very traumatic for them,'' he said. ``Some lost mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters -- killed by the Soviets.''. Lazar remembers hearing 84-year-old Boguslaw Dokurno recall his grandfather's dying wish. Dokurno's grandfather asked his grandson to return home to Poland after his death to retrieve Polish soil and bring it back to his Siberian gravesite. Another exile, Sofia Bocian, told Lazar how her brother escaped their prison camp, leaving her with the horrifying experience of being interrogated by Soviet secret police. Lazar began his professional photography career in 2006 after fully realizing the medium's storytelling power. ``For me when you're doing photography -- whether it's conventional journalism or other types -- you want to share something with people,'' he said. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Lazar said the interviews surprised him. Despite his subjects' traumatic experiences, ``they welcomed me with open arms,'' he recalled. ``They really wanted to share their stories.''. Fearing for their safety, they couldn't tell their stories publicly until the fall of the Soviet Union. Now that they're in their 80s, time is running out for them to document their struggles. Look at Lazar's images. The faces fill each frame. Each portrait is unique. Before taking each photo, he waited ``for the moment when they really started going inside themselves,'' he said. ``Those people are really strong in their souls.''. Their stories should be documented for history, he said, to remind future generations ``not to make the same mistakes.''. Tomasz Lazar is a Polish photographer. You can follow him on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
( CNN ) Most airline pilots have an above average ability to compartmentalize personal problems. The cockpit is our ``safe'' place. The flight deck is a structured world of black and white. Checklists. Procedures. Standardization. Stress from the job is an accepted part of our career. However, sometimes during the course of an airline pilot's career, or anyone's career for that matter, stress issues may manifest as depression. Depression is treatable. And for airline pilots, it is no longer debilitating to our livelihood. The Federal Aviation Administration now approves certain prescribed medication, allowing us to continue flying until depression is no longer a factor. As the world learns more about Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot on Germanwings Flight 9525, it is readily apparent that this young man had psychiatric issues far beyond clinical depression. He reportedly was administered a series of injections to mitigate his problems, an absolute reflection on the serious nature of his illness. But Lubitz's illness didn't just appear out of thin air. Its effects had to be apparent to others. Lubitz's girlfriend made her concerns public knowledge -- unfortunately after events took their course. Considering the hoops Lubitz had to jump through to have established himself as a Germanwings co-pilot, it's curious to me how the red flags of his illness were missed. To what hoops am I referring ?. First, let's start with his passion for gliders. Glider flying is one of the purest forms of aviation. Although it is mostly an individualistic endeavor, the sport involves teamwork. Interaction among fellow enthusiasts is paramount to both enjoyment and safety. I'm a glider pilot. Participation among the members of my club uncovers the personalities and idiosyncrasies of each pilot. Behaviors not quite conducive to the activity are readily apparent. Second, Lubitz had to compete successfully in a selection process just to have the opportunity to train through Lufthansa's flight program, a requirement of Germanwings employment. The selection process is most likely highly competitive, requiring above-average aptitude. Is the selection process flawed to the extent that a serious mental disorder would go unnoticed ? Regardless, the process had to be a stressful experience. Opinion : Germanwings and the stigma of mental illness. Once accepted into the flight program, a rigorous training period began. For primary training, Lufthansa utilizes an ab initio ( from the beginning ) program based at a facility the airline owns in Goodyear, Arizona, near Phoenix. The training is geared toward a multi-crew pilot license, or MPL, recognized by the International Civil Aviation Organization. The purpose of an MPL is to funnel airline pilot candidates having little or no flight time into the right seat as first officers. Countries that don't have the luxury of selecting from a large pool of experienced pilots use this license. Airline pilots in the United States are not licensed in this manner, requiring as much as 1,500 hours to qualify as a co-pilot. This is a fairly recent change in FAA regulations, initiated as a result of the 2009 Colgan Airlines crash in Buffalo, New York. Lubitz had barely over 600 hours of flight time when he committed his act of horror. As a 21-year-old flight instructor, I had that much flight time ; it hardly qualified as a lot of experience. As with all of the MPL programs, the training involves an intense period of airline-specific instruction. And to add insult to injury, candidates are not paid during the training until such time as they pass a final check ride. Regardless, the cost is borne by the student to the tune of about $ 76,000. Using both actual flight experience in a single-engine airplane and simulator time, the student receives about 250 hours of training. It is a period of almost constant supervision. Aside from observing and checking performance criteria, wouldn't at least one instructor have noticed behavioral issues in such an intense environment ? And wouldn't a fellow trainee have noticed also ?. According to reports, Lubitz took a leave from his training -- a very untypical behavior. Was that not in and of itself a red flag ? Wouldn't a manager in Lufthansa's flight department consider it prudent to reconsider a candidate with an indication of potential issues ? After all, the selection process was most likely highly competitive, with other qualified candidates readily available. Once the primary training in Arizona was complete, Lubitz would have returned to Germany and completed more specific schooling on the Airbus A320 he was about to fly. Again, no one observed issues. But even more curious, according to reports, Lubitz disclosed a diagnosis of previous depression to Lufthansa. Over the course of a career, an airline pilot spends thousands of hours sharing the confined space of the cockpit with colleagues. Even if we have never flown with a particular individual, experience allows us the intuition to know when something isn't quite right. That determination can be made through performance observation of typical routines, or perhaps through a simple conversation. In that regard, I find it difficult to believe that none of Lubitz's colleagues made a less than positive assessment at some point in time. As supplemental background, Germanwings had been established as the low-cost, alter ego carrier of Lufthansa. Depending upon a pilot's monthly flight time, salary for pilots can be as much as 20 % lower than the mainline carrier. In addition, more days on duty were part of a Germanwings crew member's schedule. Apparently as late as March 20, Lufthansa pilots had been on strike, one of the main disputes being an early retirement option and less desirable working conditions for new hires. Perhaps enough of a disparity existed for Germanwings pilots such that medical leave benefits would not have covered Lubitz's absence. Regardless, all of these factors combined to add a perfect storm of stress to one sick 27-year-old man. The world knows the end result. It just seems to me that this was an accident waiting to happen. Could it have been prevented ? Well, this is the primary purpose of accident investigation : Never allow the same tragedy to occur again.
( CNN ) I remember traveling one day in the local train in Mumbai with my mother, my younger sister and brother. The compartment was extremely crowded. As we prepared to disembark, I felt my skirt being lifted and someone groping my private parts. It was terrible. I wanted to scream, but my voice would have drowned in the noise of the crowd. I wanted to push the hands away, but my arms were pinned to my body. I wanted to cry but could only think to myself, ``Stop it ! Please stop touching me.''. I was 13 years old. I never told anyone about that day until recently. Twenty-five years later, I continue to hear similar stories of women and girls being harassed on local transportation and other public spaces. The stories can be stomach churning : men masturbating on buses and at bus stops, boys stalking young girls -- both physically and online, men taking pictures of women without permission and uploading them on the Internet. Then there are just the everyday, uncomfortable stares, frequently accompanied by comments with sexual connotations. This isn't all simply anecdotal. A study by We the People found that 80 % of women in Mumbai had been street harassed, primarily in crowded areas like trains and railway platforms. Most people, including women, only think of sexual violence as rape and tend to overlook touching, groping and stalking, not to mention the ``milder'' forms of ogling, leering, catcalling and whistling, even though all of this can be intimidating. Indeed, many women choose to limit their hours outside, select more conservative clothes, or opt for a longer but safer route home. It was only recently that I realized my phobia of trains likely originated with that bad experience I had as a child. I still avoid trains when I can. Most people are silent when inappropriate sexual behavior occurs to women. It was depressing to hear one young college student tell me in a recent sexual harassment workshop I led that ``staring and commenting by men is normal and I've learned to ignore it.''. The reality is that sexual harassment in India is pervasive in all aspects of life. It hits you in the face every day when you walk down the street, take local transport, go about your daily routine or at the workplace. According to U.N. Women's report, 1 in 3 women around the world face some form of sexual violence at least once in their lifetime. This statistic is likely even higher in India. Out of the 2,000 women who have attended workshops I've conducted, only a handful of them have never been at the receiving end of harassment in some setting of their daily lives. Shockingly, less than 10 of them had reported harassment to any official channel. Why are we constantly limiting our options rather than confronting sexual harassment ?. Over the past two years, I have been working to encourage women to talk about their experiences and realize the tremendous potential power they hold within themselves through acknowledging the problem and being a part of the change to shift the culture around sexual harassment in India. It is not always easy speaking up about sexual harassment. I know firsthand. But acknowledging that it is unacceptable is an important first step. India has laws for sexual violence in public spaces as well as at the workplace, and knowing these rules gives women the power to confront her harasser. But is it enough ? Women still have to confront the cultural challenge of not feeling ``ashamed'' and bringing ``disrepute'' to their families while overcoming their fear of dealing with the police, who too often file complaints in the wrong categories to reduce the number of official cases on which their performance is judged. However, despite the barriers, two recent cases in India provide proof that even when the perpetrator is in a position of immense power, coming forward to report sexual harassment can make a difference. There is, for example, the young employee from an environmental research organization who alleged that her boss Rajendra Pachauri made unwelcome advances to her through text messages. Her bold and persistent quest for justice resulted in Pachauri stepping down from his position as chair of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Pachauri denied the allegations and insisted his computer and phone were hacked. His counsel stated in court that Pachauri's inbox was not hacked, but he had shared the password with several people who could have sent inappropriate emails to the employee under his name. Similarly, last year, Tarun Tejpal, founder of one of India's leading media companies, was arrested for sexually assaulting his employee in an elevator. She first told her female editor who reportedly did not take her seriously. She then spoke about it to her male colleagues who encouraged her to report the incident to the police. Tarun Tejpal, who explained the incident as a ``bad lapse of judgment,'' was let out on interim bail while the case is still ongoing. Women have allies -- both male and female -- who are willing to help clear the barriers. Women everywhere just need to find the courage to speak up. The alternative to speaking out is a world where women feel less able to live full lives, restricted and disempowered. We can not accept harassment as part of our daily routine. We can not ignore it -- for our own sake and the next generation of women.
( CNN ) This week's attack on Garissa University College is Al-Shabaab's fifth major assault in Kenya in the past year and a half. The Thursday massacre was the most deadly assault so far, with 147 dead, easily eclipsing the terrorist group's most notorious attack, a four-day siege in late September 2013 at the Westgate Mall in Nairobi in which 67 people were killed. After the Westgate attack, Al-Shabaab unleashed a string of attacks in Kenya that have killed more than 100 people -- assaulting the coastal town of Mpeketoni on June 16, 2014 ; shooting bus passengers who could not recite the Quran on November 22, 2014 ; and then, days later, executing Christian quarry laborers. Why is Al-Shabaab, a Somali nationalist, Islamist group affiliated with al Qaeda, targeting Kenya ? Al-Shabaab says its attacks are to protest the more than 3,500 Kenyan soldiers participating in the African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia. But if that is the case, why doesn't Al-Shabaab target Kenyan military bases rather than attacking undefended so-called soft targets such as Kenyan malls and universities ?. In fact, Thursday's attack on the university is one more sign of the weakness of Al-Shabaab, which has steadily been losing ground for years in Somalia as a result of the African Union forces fighting them there, as well as a covert U.S. drone and Special Operations Forces campaign that has also degraded the group's capabilities. In 2006, Al-Shabaab controlled the Somali capital of Mogadishu and, in the following years, much of central and southern Somalia. Six years later, African Union forces had recaptured Mogadishu, parts of southern Somalia and critical cities such as Kismayo. The loss of Kismayo, Al-Shabaab's last city stronghold and an important port, took a financial toll on the group. Ground battles with African Union forces have decimated Al-Shabaab's rank-and-file, while U.S. drone strikes and Special Operations raids have killed some of the group's leaders. In the past four years, according to a count by New America, the U.S. has launched a dozen drone strikes and six Special Operations raids against Al-Shabaab. These strikes and raids -- almost all occurring in southern Somalia -- have targeted the terrorist group's training camps and leaders. American drones or special operators have killed 10 leaders : Aden Hashi Ayro, the top commander ; Ahmed Abdi Godane, Ayro's successor ; a top commander, Sheikh Muhidin Mohamud Omar ; Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, a senior official who operated training camps ; commander Jabreel Malik Muhammed ; Bilal al-Berjawi, the deputy of military leader Fazul Abdullah Mohammed ; chief bomb-maker Ibrahim Ali Abdi ; intelligence chief Tahlil Abdishakur ; Yusef Dheeq, the chief of external operations and planning for intelligence and security ; and Adan Garar, who was involved in planning the Westgate Mall attack. Al-Shabaab has been unraveling for years. Thursday's attack should remind the world that the group is a pale shadow of the organization that once dominated much of Somalia but now is reduced to high profile attacks against undefended civilian targets.
( Billboard ) Fresh off his scorching performance at Coachella Saturday night ( and days before his next one on the festival's second weekend ), rocker Jack White announced he'll take a hiatus from touring. White will wrap his touring efforts in support of ``Lazeretto'' with a brief, first-ever acoustic tour that will hit ``the only five states left in the U.S. that he has yet to play,'' according to White's website. Rounding out the acoustic quartet on tour will be Fats Kaplin, Lillie Mae Rische and Dominic Davis. The shows will be unannounced until day-of-show, with tickets priced at $ 3 and limited to one ticket per person, to be purchased only at the venue on a first-come, first-served basis. Billboard : Jack White on Not Being a `Sound-Bite Artist,' Living in the Wrong Era and Why Vinyl Records Are `Hypnotic'. The purposely vague announcement surely has fans ( and journalists ) scouring the Internet for White's touring history. Unclear is whether White includes his work with The White Stripes, The Raconteurs and Dead Weather in his touring history, or just his solo road work. Presumably, he's including all of his touring, with all bands, as Billboard could find only 29 states in which he has performed as Jack White. Tour dates with White Stripes add another 12 states. That leaves nine states for which we could not find a show for White : Hawaii ( where a show is scheduled for tomorrow, April 15 ), Arkansas, Idaho, Utah, Wyoming, Vermont, Iowa, and North and South Dakota. Billboard : Jack White Plays The Hits, Declares `Music Is Sacred' at Coachella. Through the process of elimination ( surely he has played Boise, Little Rock, and Salt Lake ? ), our guess as to which five ``states'' White will play on the brief acoustic run : South and North Dakota, Wyoming, Vermont and.. Puerto Rico ? If that's the case, this tour is in for some long jumps, with Puerto Rico to Vermont being a potential beast. ( Though shipping acoustic instruments and ribbon mics will be a lot less taxing than a full electrified stage setup. ). © 2015 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.
( CNN ) Wanted : film director, must be eager to shoot footage of golden lassos and invisible jets. CNN confirms that Michelle MacLaren is leaving the upcoming ``Wonder Woman'' movie ( The Hollywood Reporter first broke the story ). MacLaren was announced as director of the movie in November. CNN obtained a statement from Warner Bros. Pictures that says, ``Given creative differences, Warner Bros. and Michelle MacLaren have decided not to move forward with plans to develop and direct `Wonder Woman' together.'' ( CNN and Warner Bros. Pictures are both owned by Time Warner. ). The movie, starring Gal Gadot in the title role of the Amazon princess, is still set for release on June 23, 2017. It's the first theatrical movie centering around the most popular female superhero. Gadot will appear beforehand in ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice,'' due out March 25, 2016. In the meantime, Warner will need to find someone new for the director's chair.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) It may be time to light the lights. ABC is filming a proof of concept for a revival of ``The Muppets,'' The Hollywood Reporter has learned. ``The Big Bang Theory'' co-creator Bill Prady is co-writing the script for a pilot presentation that sources say could be unspooled at May's upfront presentation to Madison Avenue advertisers. Sources tell THR that the project, if all goes well, could go straight to series. Bob Kushell ( ``Anger Management,'' ``3rd Rock From the Sun'' ) will also co-write and is attached to serve as showrunner, with Wilfred's Randall Einhorn attached to exec produce and direct the presentation. ABC's ``Muppets'' revival is being produced by ABC Studios and The Muppet Studios, which Disney owns. The presentation is set to film next weekend on the Disney lot in Burbank with some of the original Muppet performers returning. Sources say the concept for the presentation includes the regular cast of characters created by Jim Henson -- Kermit the Frog, Fozzie Bear, Gonzo and Animal, among others -- gathering at ABC Studios for a meeting about the new ``Muppet Show.'' However, the show won't move forward unless Miss Piggy signs on, and her current relationship with frequent love Kermit is on the rocks, preventing the show from getting off the ground. Early plans call for two celebrity cameos -- including Miss Piggy's current co-star -- as well as new roles including Fozzie's girlfriend and her parents. For Prady, the revived ``Muppets'' -- which landed at ABC after initial interest from Netflix -- marks a return to his roots. The producer, who currently does not have an overall deal, started his career working for Henson in 1982 and ultimately started writing for ``The Jim Henson Hour,'' remaining on the series until a year after Henson's death in 1990. This marks the second time Prady has attempted to revive ``The Muppets.'' The writer-producer shot some test footage before CBS' ``The Big Bang Theory'' that Disney ultimately passed on. For his part, Prady earned an Emmy nomination in 1991 for writing tribute ``The Muppets Celebrate Jim Henson'' in 1990 and has contributed writing to Disney's Muppet-themed attractions. Should ABC order ``Muppets'' to series, Prady would juggle both that project and CBS' ``The Big Bang Theory,'' which he exec produces. Created in 1955 by Henson, the original Muppet characters appeared on ``Sam and Friends'' from 1955-61 before going on to appear on late-night talk shows and commercials and becoming a regular part of ``Sesame Street'' in 1969. ``The Muppet Show'' launched on its own as a comedy-variety series and ran from 1976-81, with Kermit serving as the de-facto showrunner on the syndicated series that was produced out of the U.K. The franchise has spawned multiple movies ( 1979's ``The Muppet Movie,'' 1981's ``The Great Muppet Caper,'' 1984's ``The Muppets Take Manhattan'' ) as well as NBC's 1989 series ``The Jim Henson Hour.''. Following Henson's death, the franchise continued with ``Muppets Tonight'' airing on ABC in 1996 with reruns airing on sibling Disney Channel from 1997-2000. That was the last television series to feature the Muppets characters. On the feature side, the franchise featured 1992's ``The Muppet Christmas Carol,'' 1996's ``Muppet Treasure Island'' and 1999's ``Muppets From Space,'' the latter two of which were co-produced by Disney, who acquired rights to the Muppets in 2004 and formed The Muppets Studio. The company rebranded the franchise in 2008 with Jason Segel's ``The Muppets,'' with an eighth feature in the franchise, ``Muppets Most Wanted'' bowing in 2014. For ABC, the Muppets revival comes as variety shows are in the midst of a resurgence on the broadcast networks. NBC has made the format a priority, unspooling Marlon Wayans-hosted celebrity variety series ``I Can Do That !'' in the summer and has Neil Patrick Harris entry ``Saturday Night Takeaway'' in the works. The decision to revive ``The Muppets'' also comes as remakes and reboots are having their moment in the sun on the small-screen, as broadcast networks look to fan bases for existing franchises to help cut through the clutter and draw eyeballs in an increasingly crowded scripted space. On the comedy side, ``The Muppets'' arrives as it has become increasingly challenging to launch original scripted half-hours. Prady is repped by Rothman Brecher and Lichter Grossman ; Kushell is with ICM Partners ; Einhorn is with WME, Odenkirk Provissiero and Bloom Hergott. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) When Etan Patz went missing in New York City at age 6, hardly anyone in America could help but see his face at their breakfast table. His photo's appearance on milk cartons after his May 1979 disappearance marked an era of heightened awareness of crimes against children. On Friday, more than 35 years after frenzied media coverage of his case horrified parents everywhere, a New York jury will again deliberate over a possible verdict against the man charged in his killing, Pedro Hernandez. He confessed to police three years ago. Etan Patz's parents have waited that long for justice, but some have questioned whether that is at all possible in Hernandez's case. His lawyer has said that he is mentally challenged, severely mentally ill and unable to discern whether he committed the crime or not. Hernandez told police in a taped statement that he lured Patz into a basement as the boy was on his way to a bus stop in Lower Manhattan. He said he killed the boy and threw his body away in a plastic bag. Neither the child nor his remains have ever been recovered. But Hernandez has been repeatedly diagnosed with schizophrenia and has an ``IQ in the borderline-to-mild mental retardation range,'' his attorney Harvey Fishbein has said. Police interrogated Hernandez for 7 1/2 hours before he confessed. ``I think anyone who sees these confessions will understand that when the police were finished, Mr. Hernandez believed he had killed Etan Patz. But that doesn't mean he actually did, and that's the whole point of this case,'' Fishbein has said. But in November, a New York judge ruled that Hernandez's confession and his waiving of his Miranda rights were legal, making the confession admissible in court. Another man's name has also hung over the Patz case for years -- Jose Antonio Ramos, a convicted child molester acquainted with Etan's babysitter. Etan's parents, Stan and Julia Patz, sued Ramos in 2001. The boy was officially declared dead as part of that lawsuit. A judge found Ramos responsible for the boy's death and ordered him to pay the family $ 2 million -- money the Patz family has never received. Though Ramos was at the center of investigations for years, he has never been charged. He served a 20-year prison sentence in Pennsylvania for molesting another boy and was set to be released in 2012. He was reportedly immediately rearrested upon exiting jail in 2012 on failure to register as a sex offender. Since their young son's disappearance, the Patzes have worked to keep the case alive and to create awareness of missing children in the United States. In the early 1980s, Etan's photo appeared on milk cartons across the country, and news media focused in on the search for him and other missing children. ``It awakened America,'' said Ernie Allen, president and chief executive officer of the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. ``It was the beginning of a missing children's movement.''. The actual number of children who were kidnapped and killed did not change -- it's always been a relatively small number -- but awareness of the cases skyrocketed, experts said. But the news industry was expanding to cable television, and sweet images of children appeared along with destroyed parents begging for their safe return. The fear rising across the nation sparked awareness and prompted change from politicians and police. In 1984, Congress passed the Missing Children's Assistance Act, which led to the creation of the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. Former President Ronald Reagan opened the center in a White House ceremony in 1984. It soon began operating a 24-hour toll-free hot line on which callers could report information about missing boys and girls. Joe Sterling and CNN's Lorenzo Ferrigno contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A naturalized U.S. citizen pleaded not guilty in Ohio Friday to federal charges of providing material support to terrorists and lying to the FBI. Abdirahman Sheik Mohamud, 23, of Columbus, allegedly traveled to Syria for training and wanted to return home to kill Americans -- particularly U.S. soldiers, execution style, the U.S. Department of Justice said Thursday. Mohamud was remanded into custody on Friday. ``I am confident in the system working fairly and ( in ) our client getting a vigorous and aggressive defense,'' said his lawyer, Sam Shamansky. Mohamud told someone that he wanted to target U.S. armed forces, police officers or other people in uniform, the indictment alleges, adding that ``Mohamud's plan was to attack a military facility, and his backup plan was to attack a prison.''. ``Mohamud talked about doing something big in the United States. He wanted to go to a military base in Texas and kill three or four American soldiers execution style,'' it says. Mohamud allegedly said he was happy that his brother, Aden, died fighting for al-Nusra Front, al Qaeda's largest affiliate in Syria. Mohamud told someone he planned to join Aden in death soon, the indictment says. He became a U.S. citizen in February 2014 and submitted a U.S. passport application days later, according to the indictment. Mohamud traveled to Syria in April 2014 ``for the purpose of training and fighting with terrorists,'' prosecutors said in a news release. To get there, Mohamud bought a one-way ticket to Greece with a layover in Istanbul, Turkey, the Department of Justice said. He skipped the connecting flight ``and instead completed pre-arranged plans to travel to Syria.''. Once there, he trained in shooting weapons, breaking into homes, using explosives and hand-to-hand combat, prosecutors said. Mohamud ``also stated that, after completing this training, he was instructed by a cleric in the organization to return to the United States and commit an act of terrorism.''. CNN's John Newsome contributed to this story.
( CNN ) From the giant sequoias of Yosemite to the geysers of Yellowstone, the United States' national parks were made for you and me. And for Saturday and Sunday, they're also free. Though most of the National Park Service's 407 sites are free year-round, the 128 parks that charge a fee -- like Yellowstone and Yosemite -- will be free those two days. It's all part of National Park Week, happening April 18 through April 26, and it's hosted by the National Park Service and the National Park Foundation. Check out night-time astronomy parties, daytime Revolutionary War programs, Earth Day parties and family-friendly Junior Ranger activities at national park sites across the country. Not sure how to start ? Go to FindYourPark.com to learn more about park sites near you. Go to www.nationalparkweek.org for more ideas on how to explore. Then the park service wants people to share their stories using the hashtag #FindYourPark and at FindYourPark.com.
( CNN ) Can you imagine paying $ 1,000 a month in rent to live in a one-car garage ? Nicole, a 30-year-old woman, doesn't have to imagine this scenario because it's her everyday reality. The small and unusual living space is all that this employed, single mother can afford in her high-cost community in San Mateo, California. Nicole isn't alone in her struggles. CNN recently published a powerful piece called ``Poor kids of Silicon Valley'' that documents the affordable housing challenges facing families in the Bay Area. One aspect featured a house that is home to 16 people, including 11 children. Another chronicles a husband and wife named Rich and Stacey, both of whom have jobs, who are living in a San Jose homeless shelter with their two kids because they don't have the money to go anywhere else. Although Silicon Valley has unique characteristics, it isn't the only community confronting these challenges. Our entire nation is in the midst of an affordable housing crisis. The agency I lead, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, recently released a report estimating that 7.7 million low-income households live in substandard housing, spend more than half their incomes on rent or both. These are families who are dedicating $ 1 out of every $ 2 they earn just to keep a roof over their head. And the more they spend on housing, the less they have to invest in their children's education, build up savings and shop at local businesses. These are outcomes that hurt our nation's economy and require us to respond with swift and bold action. HUD is working with local partners across the country to do just that. First, we're focusing on preserving the affordable housing that already exists. Since the mid-1970s, we have directed and insured loans for multifamily properties that have resulted in more than 700,000 affordable units. But by 2020, we're in danger of losing more than 125,000 because these mortgages are maturing, ending agreements to control rents in these units. So we've launched a preservation effort with private partners to keep these properties affordable for generations to come. We're also doing the same with public housing. Right now, the nation is losing 10,000 units of public housing every year, mainly because of disrepair, HUD created the Rental Assistance Demonstration initiative to bring private investment into the fold for the public good. It's cost neutral for the federal government and making a big impact for communities such as Lexington, North Carolina, where the local housing authority is making 58 years' worth of repairs in just 22 months, including new lighting, modern windows and better insulation to help residents stay warm and cut energy costs. RAD has allowed local communities to raise more than $ 733 million in new capital to date. That's why we're asking Congress to give every community the chance to participate by lifting the restrictions on this program. No American should ever have to wait six decades to have a decent and healthy place to call home. In addition to preservation, HUD is also working to create new affordable housing. A Harvard study revealed that in 2012, there were 11.5 million extremely low-income households and only 3.3 million affordable units available. It's clear that we can't preserve our way out of this problem. We've got to grow the supply to meet demand, so HUD is taking a multifaceted approach. For example, our HOME Investment Partnerships Program is leveraging $ 4 in private and other public resources for every $ 1 in HOME funds and leading to more than 1 million new and rehabilitated units for rent or sale to lower income families. This is more than just a statistic : It is progress for people, from the families living in the Broadway Crossing development in Washington to the seniors living in the Woodcrest Retirement Residence in Pennsylvania. To keep this momentum going, we've asked Congress to increase HOME funding by 16 % to keep building affordable homes, prosperous partnerships and strong communities across the nation. We are also asking Congress to expand our Housing Choice Voucher Program, which allows recipients of modest means, the elderly, and people with disabilities to find housing in the private market. This includes restoring 67,000 vouchers that were lost to sequestration. And we're targeting our resources where they can have a big impact. For instance, HUD awarded $ 94 million in targeted homelessness assistance to 274 programs across the San Francisco Bay Area, including Silicon Valley, in January. And we continue to work with local partners to encourage private investment. To empower communities, President Barack Obama has also requested $ 300 million for new Local Housing Policy Grants to help them increase housing affordability, economic growth and access to jobs. All of this work is making a significant contribution to families and communities from coast-to-coast. Our nation's affordable housing challenges won't be solved overnight, and we still need to do more to make sure that more folks are able to prosper. Let's not squander this chance to make real progress for American families. Incredible things can happen when a wide variety of leaders come together for the common good. By leveraging private investment and increasing collaboration with state, local and tribal governments and other traditional housing partners, I know we can build a future where affordable housing is available to all.
( CNN ) The public outrage over the ``religious freedom'' bills recently passed in Arkansas and Indiana caught the governors of those states completely off-guard, judging by their confused and contradictory responses. As poll watchers, they surely knew that most Americans now oppose the discriminatory laws and practices they accepted as normal only a dozen years ago. But the politicians underestimated the pushback organized by local and national businesses, including companies with no previous record of public support for social equality. They had better adjust to a new reality. For the past three decades, socially conservative evangelicals and pro-business interests have been powerfully allied against government regulations, environmental initiatives and social welfare programs, while supporting lower taxes for the wealthy and pushing back against the growing diversity in America's population. For many, this alliance been puzzling : Other, equally devout Christians who place more emphasis on Jesus Christ's message of unconditional love and on his denunciations of excessive wealth and neglect of the poor, have been uncomfortable with it, as have many business leaders. Their priorities, after all, are based on the bottom line. And companies that sell goods and services to the public are learning that support for discrimination -- or even passive acceptance of it -- threatens that bottom line. Hence, after Indiana Gov. Mike Pence signed a law that opened a new door for discrimination against same-sex couples, the threat of boycotts and other retaliation was swift, from groups as diverse as the National Collegiate Athletic Association, the Indiana Pacers, Walmart, Eli Lilly, Apple and even the Marriott International hotel chain. Marriott International was founded by J.W. Marriott, a dedicated Mormon, and is now run by his son Bill, also a Mormon who fully accepts his church's teachings about traditional marriage. Yet in June, Marriott International launched a'' #Love Travels'' marketing campaign, aimed at attracting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender travelers with an assurance of ``the company's commitment to make everyone feel comfortable about who they are.''. Asked about the discrepancy between his religious rejection of same-sex marriage and his marketing overtures to same-sex honeymooners, Marriott pointed to the Bible's injunction of unconditional love, but added ``beyond that, I am very careful about separating my personal faith and beliefs from how we run our business.''. In 2014, global spending by LGBT travelers was estimated at more than $ 200 billion, and spending by this market segment is rising much faster than overall spending on travel. So Marriott worries when states start to make such travelers feel unwelcome. Businesses seeking to develop brand loyalty among younger consumers have a special incentive to highlight their rejection of anti-gay bias. A CNN poll taken in February found that 72 % of millennials nationwide believe that same-sex couples have the right to have their marriages recognized as valid. Even among white evangelical Protestants, 43 % of millennials support same-sex marriage, compared with less than 20 % of those their grandparents' age, 68 and older. It used to be that businesses could close their eyes to discrimination in areas geographically isolated from the more liberal coasts, but that is no longer possible. According to researchers for MTV's ``Look Different'' anti-bias campaign, 90 % of youths aged 14 to 24 agree that it is important to make their communities a less biased place, and almost 80 % say that everyone has a responsibility to help tackle bias. So who's the ``moral majority'' now ?. For media-savvy millennials, following that moral imperative means spreading the news about discrimination wherever it occurs and reaching beyond geographic boundaries to mobilize against it. In the first 24 hours after Arkansas passed its version of the ``religious freedom'' bill, the Twitter hashtag #BoycottArkansas was used 12,000 times. It then snowballed after celebrity blogger Perez Hilton tweeted it to his 5.9 million Twitter followers. America has crossed a threshold where it is no longer a good business model or political strategy to be intolerant of diversity, whether that pertains to race, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Since 2011, the majority of children that have been born in the United States each year are members of racial or ethnic minorities. Hispanics are projected to account for most of the growth in the labor force between now and 2060. Women now lead men in educational attainment. And more than half of Americans live in states where same-sex marriage is legal. Business leaders and politicians who ignore or offend these constituencies do so at their own peril.
( CNN ) In response to reports of big banks threatening to withhold campaign funds from Senate Democrats, Sen. Elizabeth Warren last week offered a defiant response : ``Bring it on.'' Warren said she isn't going to slack off on her calls for breaking up banks and other measures to rein in Wall Street. As Hillary Clinton prepares to officially launch her presidential campaign this month, she will need to make a choice about how much to highlight issues relating to economic inequality. Former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, who is also running for the Democratic nomination, is trying to steal Clinton's thunder by talking about the problems of disproportionate wealth. In other words, there are many signs that Democrats are planning to take on the big issue of economic inequality. But in other recent news, the likelihood that New York's Chuck Schumer will replace Harry Reid as leader of the Senate Democrats means the dreams of a more economically leftward party are crashing into political reality. While Schumer has been a very effective Democrat and skilled legislative leader, he is also a Wall Street Democrat who has spent much of his time courting and protecting powerful financial interests who run one of the dominant industries in his state. He is not alone. Even at his most progressive moments, President Barack Obama relied on Wall Street donations for both of his campaigns. Despite all the talk from conservatives about left-wing ``socialism'' in the White House, the financial community has been willing to open its coffers to Democrats without much concern, even in the 2012 election. Democratic populism can't really work within the current campaign finance system. The enormous pressures for parties to raise funds in campaigns has for many decades created pressure on Democrats, despite their political base, to court big donors. During the 1980s, California Democrat Tony Coelho, serving as the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and then as majority whip, made a strong appeal to savings and loans executives before the crash of the industry to catch up to Republicans who had been outflanking them in raising money. The Democrats were, and have continued to, losing their traditional base of campaign support -- organized labor -- which had been a central source of campaign muscle since the 1930s, providing money and campaign assistance during campaigns. Without organized labor to serve as their foundation and with the pressure for raising private funds increasing, many Democrats concluded they needed business by their side. Democrats running for president have made the same kind of choices. In 2008, Obama disappointed many supporters upon becoming the first president to abandon the post-Watergate public finance system for campaigns altogether, preferring to raise money himself for the general campaign. While small donors were enormously important to his victories, so too were business and Wall Street executives. At the height of the financial crash, when public sentiment had clearly turned against Wall Street, the administration agreed to a financial regulation bill ( Dodd-Frank ) that was structured in such a way as to give powerful interests more than enough opportunity to limit the bite over the coming years. Wall Street, with an army of counsel, succeeded in eroding the impact of the legislation. Not only does the acceptance of our campaign finance system limit the policy choices Democrats can make, but it also greatly damages the party's brand name. As The Washington Post reported, the scandal that might bring down New Jersey Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez is the first involving large scale super PAC donations. At the heart of the story is almost $ 600,000 that physician Salomon Melgen gave to Senate Majority PAC, possibly in exchange for favors. This is not simply some sort of accommodation of Democrats to the corporate system. They don't have much of a choice. Without these funds, they won't be able to compete. In this election cycle, independent campaign donors are causing a huge stir. In conservative circles, the Koch brothers and their allies are throwing around enormous amounts of money to candidates who will support their deregulatory agenda. Individual donors such as Las Vegas gambling magnate Sheldon Adelson are causing ripples every time candidates speak, pressuring them to adjust their agenda. Democrats have found their own magnates for political support, such as Tom Steyer and George Soros. This is why campaign finance reform is so important, Without Congress changing the fundamental dynamics, there won't be much room for populism to thrive. Even if Democrats select someone like a Elizabeth Warren as their candidate or Hillary Clinton decides to move sharply to the left on economic policy, there won't be much room for reform when the time of governance actually starts. The Democratic Party needs Wall Street more than it needs to take a stand against Wall Street. Those are the facts on the ground. If Democrats really want to take on Wall Street and tackle economic inequality, they first have to bring about reform of the campaign finance system. If campaigns were publicly funded or there were more stringent limits on independent expenditures, Wall Street would have much more trouble achieving disproportionate influence. Reform could level the playing field. More often than not, campaign finance reform is an issue that gets sidetracked with little more than some pro forma words of support. A more populist economic agenda that revolved around progressive taxation and substantial public assistance to strengthen the middle class can only work in a different kind of political system. If things stay the same, Democrats can only continue to win elections by turning to their corporate and financial base of support.
( CNN ) A jury of Rolling Stone's media peers has dissected the magazine's disastrous, discredited story about rape on the campus of the University of Virginia, and the emerging consensus is that Rolling Stone's lapses and sloppy blunders amount to journalistic malpractice -- made all the worse by the magazine's head-in-the sand reaction to the thorough, devastating report released by a panel of investigators from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. Rolling Stone's egregious mistakes of reporting and editing are regrettable but understandable. The magazine's decision not to fire anybody or reorganize its newsroom operation is not. Before the original story, ``A Rape on Campus,'' was pulled from the Rolling Stone website, it registered 2.7 million hits following its publication in November -- more than any noncelebrity story in the magazine's history. An anonymous undergraduate, given the name ``Jackie,'' told Rolling Stone writer Sabrina Rubin Erdely she had been invited to a party thrown by Phi Kappa Psi fraternity in 2012 -- only to end up beaten and gang-raped by seven boys, who were allegedly coached along in the attack by the same student, a casual acquaintance, who had invited Jackie to the party. The horrific allegations sparked protests against the fraternity, a police investigation, the temporary suspension of all fraternities at the school and a nationwide debate about the prevalence of sexual violence on college campuses. But the story began to unravel almost immediately when Washington Post reporter T. Rees Shapiro took a closer look, leading Rolling Stone to back away from the story and request a review by the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. That review, which is considerably longer than the original article, reveals startling lapses in basic journalistic practice. Rolling Stone writer Erdely never verified the identity of the attacker and therefore never confronted him with the allegations ; she never spoke to three of Jackie's friends who allegedly talked with Jackie immediately after the attack, and she never gave the fraternity a fair chance to respond, refusing to provide specific information about what happened and when. And at every step of the way, when Jackie began acting flaky -- refusing to provide basic information needed to verify her story or vanishing for weeks at a time without returning calls from the reporter -- neither Erdely nor her editors or the magazine's fact checkers made the hard but necessary decision to hit the pause button and decline to run the story. Having worked part time as a journalism professor for a decade ( including one semester at Columbia ), I would agree with colleagues who call Rolling Stone's lapses the kind that would be unacceptable in a freshman classroom. I've told students for years : You should never print allegations without giving people a fair chance to respond. And you should never take a source's word about important facts without verifying the truth. ( There's a reason we call it reporting and not dictation. ). Most of all, I tell students, remember that you're writing about human beings, who are complicated creatures : The good guys are never all that good, and the bad guys usually aren't completely bad. People can be mistaken or deceitful, I tell young reporters, they frequently forget and often lie to themselves. That doesn't make a source useless, but it must make you extra careful. Unfortunately, the early word from Rolling Stone is that they've absorbed none of these lessons. Publisher Jann Wenner has apparently decided not to fire, demote or discipline anybody at Rolling Stone, provoking expressions of disbelief among seasoned journalists. ``No one fired at Rolling Stone. Really ?'' wrote CNN media critic Brian Stelter. ``What would Rolling Stone in its heyday write about an institution that screwed up unbelievably, damaged people's lives, but punished no one ?'' tweeted John Bresnahan, the Capitol bureau chief of Politico. ``Rolling Stone outsources its investigation to Columbia and proceeds to do nothing in terms of individual accountability afterward ? OK..,'' tweeted pundit Joe Concha. Worse still, the editors who committed the blunder seem unprepared to revamp their operation to prevent a repeat of the debacle, framing the error as an earnest but misguided attempt to believe the word of a sexual assault victim. ``Rolling Stone's senior editors are unanimous in the belief that the story's failure does not require them to change their editorial systems,'' the Columbia report says. And check out this amazing conclusion from Will Dana, the managing editor who presided over the disaster. Dana told the Columbia team : ``It's not like I think we need to overhaul our process, and I don't think we need to necessarily institute a lot of new ways of doing things. We just have to do what we've always done and just make sure we don't make this mistake again.''. That smug attitude pretty much ensures Rolling Stone's newsroom managers will commit another goof in the future. At a minimum, they should heed the wise counsel of my friend Bill Grueskin, an executive editor at Bloomberg who formerly served as dean of academic affairs at the Columbia J-school. ``When doing big, investigative stories, reporters face many challenges : recalcitrant sources, complex numbers, buried records. Editors, whose labors are usually cloaked in anonymity, are spared most of those hurdles. But they face their own internal newsroom challenges, particularly when handling a potential blockbuster story,'' Grueskin writes. ``They must keep their star reporters happy, trim verbiage that interrupts the narrative, and deal with the expectations of bosses hungry for prizes and traffic.''. The problem could be, says Grueskin, that Rolling Stone had too many chefs in the kitchen, instead of ``a single, talented editor with an intact set of vertebrae.''. Until Wenner and his team learn that basic lesson -- and revamp their hiring, editing and fact-checking process accordingly -- the Rolling Stone fiasco will eventually be followed by another, one made less forgivable because we all saw it coming.
( CNN ) Duckie's still got moves. On Tuesday night's ``Late Late Show'' on CBS, actor Jon Cryer reprised the character's record-store dance to Otis Redding's ``Try a Little Tenderness,'' right down to the wall-dancing, the counter-bashing and, of course, the trademark white shoes. In the original scene, one of the best-loved bits from the 1986 John Hughes film, Cryer dances around a record store, lip-syncing the song as he tries to win the affection of Molly Ringwald's Andie. In Tuesday's recreation, he dances in tandem with host James Corden, who tweeted that he'd ``fulfilled a childhood dream'' by re-creating the scene with Cryer -- who turned 50 on Thursday. ``I watched that `Try a Little Tenderness' dance routine so many times, the tape on the VHS wore out,'' Corden said on the show. Like Cryer, who has most recently appeared on ``Two and a Half Men,'' many of the film's original fans are well into middle age. But still some may have squealed like teenagers when they saw the routine.
( CNN ) An American citizen was wounded by gunfire Thursday as she drove from the medical school in Karachi, Pakistan, where she works, police said. Debra Lobo, a 55-year-old California native, was shot in the right cheek and left arm and is unconscious but expected to survive, according to Mohamad Shah, a Karachi police spokesman. Police found pamphlets that the assailants had thrown into Lobo's car, written in Urdu, saying ``America should be burnt,'' Shah said. Lobo had left the Jinnah Medical and Dental College, where she works as vice principal, to pick up her two daughters from school. Two assailants on a passing motorcycle shot her while she was driving, Shah said. ``Our U.S. Consulate General in Karachi is in close contact with Pakistani authorities and is working to obtain more information,'' said a U.S. Embassy spokesperson. Lobo is being treated at the Karachi's Aga Khan Hospital, said Shah. She has lived in Pakistan since 1996 and is married to a Christian Pakistani who is a librarian at the American School in Karachi. Karachi police are investigating, Shah said.
( CNN ) Thursday will mark three weeks since Saudi Arabia began airstrikes on Houthi rebels in Yemen. But there is as yet little sign that the rebels are being driven back, that the fighting in Yemen is dying down or that lives there are being saved. To the contrary, increasingly more Yemenis appear to be fleeing the country, attempting the dangerous trip in rickety fishing boats across the Red Sea to the Horn of Africa -- a trip historically made by people fleeing Africa rather than the other way around. Hopes for stability, not only in Yemen but in the Middle East in general, are fading as fears grow that Saudia Arabia and Iran are fighting a proxy war in Yemen for regional domination. And the number of dead continues to mount. Yemen's health ministry said over the weekend that 385 civilians had been killed and 342 others had been wounded. The World Health Organization has put a higher figure on both tolls -- 648 killed and 2,191 wounded -- but includes militant casualties in the totals. The Houthis forced Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January, though Hadi still claims he is Yemen's legitimate leader and is working with the Saudis and other allies to return to Yemen. Those allied with Hadi have accused the Iranian government of supporting the Houthis in their uprising in Yemen. Like the Iranians, the Houthis are Shiites. And like the Saudis, Hadi and his government are Sunni. Since it began on March 26, Saudi Arabia has launched more than 1,200 airstrikes. Saudi officials claim to have killed more than 500 Houthi rebels. The U.N. Security Council voted Tuesday in favor of an arms embargo on Houthis -- the minority group that has taken over large swaths of Yemen, including its capital, Sanaa -- and supporters of former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh. The resolution ``raises the cost'' for the Houthis, according to Mark Lyall Grant, Britain's ambassador to the United Nations. In addition to the arms embargo, the resolution also demands that the Shiite group pull back and refrain from more violence and includes sanctions aimed at controlling the spread of terrorism, according to Grant. Russia abstained from Tuesday's vote, saying it didn't like the inclusion of sanctions. Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen ?
( CNN ) Editor's Note : Ines Dumig was recently announced as a CENTER Grant Recipient. Sahra, a Somali refugee, left her home at 14 years old. Throughout her journey in search of asylum, she managed to overcome dangers and discomforts. But she never gave up, and she continuously reminded herself to keep going. She's the focus of Ines Dumig's photo series ``Apart Together.''. Dumig met Sahra through a photo workshop at Refugio, a shelter in Munich, Germany, for refugees and torture victims. What drew Dumig to Sahra specifically was her strength and her ability to effectively reflect on all of her experiences. ``It really impressed me how she deals with everything,'' Dumig said. ``She's strong in her way of connecting with the culture here and also reflecting on what happened, the culture where she comes from.''. The number of refugees seeking asylum in the European Union increased by 25 % last year, with Germany receiving the most applications. One of the reasons Dumig decided to photograph Sahra is because growing up in Germany made Dumig realize that she lived a fortunate lifestyle. Another reason has to do with Dumig's interest in people's emotions and finding one's identity. ``I realized so many people want to come to Europe, and I always had the feeling to disappear or to go away,'' Dumig said. ``Seeing how people live in other parts of the world made me realize how privileged I am.''. ``Apart Together'' serves not only as a documentation of Sahra, but as a far-reaching story about people from all backgrounds. The title of Dumig's work refers to the fact that although people may be physically apart from one another, the comparable feelings they experience are what link all people together. ``Sometimes we feel strong, sometimes we feel lost -- that's kind of universal, I think,'' Dumig said. ``That's why I want to universalize ( Sahra's ) story as well, not only make it about her.''. The underlying themes of ``Apart Together'' include the feelings of isolation and ``otherness'' and the search for a valuable human dignity. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. ``Every one of these ( refugees ) have strong stories, and in the bureaucratic system, they are just a number or a document,'' Dumig said. ``But they are a person, they are people with emotions and lives.''. Sahra is currently under the status of ``suspension of deportation,'' meaning German immigration officials may grant her discretionary relief from deportation. Dumig describes Sahra as someone living through an unresolved situation. Regardless of the challenges Sahra faces as a refugee in Germany, she is a survivor and the embodiment of resilience, determined to establish a new life for herself. She has learned to speak German fluently, and she has started working in the nation as well. Like an unsolved photographic puzzle, each photo within ``Apart Together'' provides a piece of insight into Sahra's experiences. There is no certain and clear way in which to arrange the pieces, because they are a representation of the fragmented nature of Sahra's life. Many of Dumig's photos are not of Sahra herself, but instead show her surroundings. This makes ``Apart Together'' rich in symbolism and challenges viewers to develop their own perceptions. The photos are powerful because of this symbolic nature, as there are infinite interpretations attached to each one. ``I think everyone interprets by themselves, by however way they perceive it through their own experience. That's up to the viewer,'' Dumig said. ``It depends on who looks at the pictures.. Everyone will see something different.''. ``Apart Together'' allowed Dumig to share various special moments with Sahra, and they were both able to learn from each other. ``It was just something we both got something out of,'' Dumig said. Ines Dumig is a photographer based in Germany.
( CNN ) Two Delaware boys are in a coma and their father still is unable to talk or move two weeks after they became sick -- perhaps from pesticide exposure, federal officials say -- during a trip to the U.S. Virgin Islands, their lawyer said Saturday. Steve Esmond, his teenage sons and the teens' mother fell ill more than two weeks ago in St. John, where they were renting a villa at the Sirenusa resort. The family was airlifted to hospitals in the United States. The boys, 16 and 14, were in critical condition at a Philadelphia hospital on Saturday, the family's lawyer, James Maron of Delaware, said. ``The boys are in rough shape,'' Maron said. ``The family are all fighters,'' he added. ``They're fighting for everything right now. I understand it's a long recovery.''. Esmond, also being treated at a hospital, is conscious but can not move, Maron said. The teens' mother, Theresa Devine, was treated at a hospital but released, and is now in occupational therapy, Maron said. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said Friday that the presence of a pesticide at the rented villa in St. John may have caused the illnesses, which were reported to the EPA on March 20. Paramedics were called to the villa, which the family began had been renting since March 14. Esmond was found unconscious ; the boys and their mother were having seizures, Maron said. The lawyer did not say who called the paramedics. Elias Rodriguez, an EPA spokesman, said the agency's preliminary test results ``do show that there was a presence of methyl bromide in the unit where the family was staying.''. Exposure to methyl bromide can result in serious health effects, including central nervous system and respiratory system damage, according to the EPA. The use of the pesticide is restricted in the United States because of its acute toxicity. It's not allowed to be used indoors. Only certified professionals are permitted to use it in certain agricultural settings. ``It's an ongoing investigation ; we're still on the island doing our assessment,'' Rodriguez said. ``We have been doing different types of air sampling and wipe sampling.''. Final test results were expected next week. The EPA said it is working with local government agencies to investigate whether the family was made ill after a fumigation at the resort on March 18 and whether any environmental regulations or laws were violated. Maron, the family's attorney, declined to comment on the investigation. Depending on the season, the luxury villa where the family stayed rents between $ 550 and $ 1,200 per night. Sea Glass Vacations, which acts as a rental agent for several units at Sirenusa, said the unit directly below the one where the family stayed was recently treated for pests, but their unit was not treated. The company said it licensed an outside company, Terminix, for the pest control services. ``Sea Glass Vacations does not treat the units it manages for pests but instead relies on licensed professionals for pest control services,'' the company said in a statement. The U.S. Department of Justice has initiated a criminal investigation into the matter, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing made Monday by ServiceMaster Global Holdings, the parent company of Terminix. In an email to CNN, a spokesman for Terminix wrote that the company is ``committed to performing all work.. in a manner that is safe for our customers, employees, the public and the environment'' and is ``looking into this matter internally, and cooperating with authorities.''. ``We're thinking about the family, and we join the community in wishing them a speedy recovery,'' Terminix wrote. The SEC filing described the injuries to the family members as ``serious.''
( CNN ) At first police in Marana, Arizona, thought the shoplifted gun Mario Valencia held as he walked through a busy office park was locked and unable to fire. The cable through the lever and trigger couldn't be taken off, an officer was told by an employee of the Walmart where Valencia took the gun and some rounds of ammunition. But just 10 seconds after the worker told police that.. a shot. Valencia had fired into the air, and less than a minute later a police car slammed into him in a move that ended a crime spree and sparked nationwide discussion on the officer's unusual tactic. The 36-year-old Valencia was hospitalized and within a few days transferred to jail where he faces 15 charges, including shoplifting the.30 -30 rifle. That February morning, police have said, Valencia committed several crimes in nearby Tucson before stealing a car and driving to the Walmart in Marana. There he went to the sporting goods department, asked to see a rifle, then told an employee he wanted the ammunition. Officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says. The woman told police she gave Valencia the rounds because he told her he would break the case with the bullets inside. He also told her not to do anything stupid. In spite of that she also said she didn't feel threatened, leading police to charge him with shoplifting and not armed robbery. Walmart told CNN's Miguel Marquez that the store clerk acted appropriately, even using a code to alert security to call police. Valencia took the gun and ammo and fled into a nearby business park where he encountered an officer in a slow-moving patrol car. At one point he pointed the weapon at an officer and at another he pointed it at his head. The officer told him several times to put down the gun, police have said. The officers that were tailing him assumed that he likely couldn't shoot anyone because of the store's lock. Marana police on Thursday said the cable gun lock was still on the rifle when it was recovered. But the wire that goes through the trigger and the lever to reload the gun were loose enough to allow it to still be used, police said. It also should have been wrapped through the lever twice, not once, police said. A Walmart spokesman told CNN that the rifle had been properly locked and might have been affected by the hard blow caused by the police car. Valencia, who is in Pima County Jail, will appear in court again on May 18.
( CNN ) Hockey player Jarret Stoll of the L.A. Kings was arrested Friday at the swimming pool of a Las Vegas resort on a drug-possession charge, CNN affiliate KSNV reported, citing a police spokesman. Stoll, 32, was charged with possession of controlled substances, including cocaine and ecstasy, according to KSNV. He was released from the Clark County Detention Center late Friday on $ 5,000 bail. The Kings said in a statement, ``We are aware of police reports out of Clark County, Nevada regarding Jarret Stoll. Our organization is concerned and has begun conducting a thorough internal investigation. While we continue to actively gather facts, we are withholding further comment at this time.''. The Canadian player is a center and has been with the Kings since 2008. The Kings, who won the Stanley Cup two of the past three seasons, did not make the NHL playoffs this season. He is reportedly involved with TV personality Erin Andrews, who is a Fox Sports reporter and co-hosts ``Dancing with the Stars.''. CNN contacted the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department to confirm details on Stoll's arrest, but according to the dispatcher no information was available until the beginning of the week.
Duhok, Iraqi Kurdistan ( CNN ) The children laugh and shriek, as some of them seem to always have the capacity to do no matter how depressing the circumstances. Their bright clothes provide splashes of color against the otherwise drab monotone white of the endless rows of tents. A small group plays with rocks, replacements for the toys they left behind when they fled, while others clamber through a jagged tear in the wire fence surrounding the refugee camp. The Shariya refugee camp opened around six months ago, made up of some 4,000 tents and counting. Thousands of Yazidis now call this corner of Iraqi Kurdistan home, about 18 miles ( 30 kilometers ) from one of the front lines with ISIS, where one can hear the occasional reverberation in the distance of what we are told are airstrikes. The vast majority of the camp's occupants are from the town of Sinjar, which is near the border with Syrian Kurdistan, and fled the ISIS assault there back in August. But not everyone escaped. ISIS took thousands of Yazidis captive. The fighters separated the young women and girls, some as young as 8 years old, to be sold as slaves, for their ``masters'' to use as concubines. Men faced a choice : Convert to Islam or be shot. Mahmoud was out running errands when ISIS fighters arrived, taking his wife, Ahlam, their three children -- the youngest of which was just a month old -- and his elderly parents. ``They took our phones, jewelry, money,'' Ahlam recalls. ``They had guns. They forced us at gunpoint into big trailer trucks.''. They were taken to a school turned prison in Tal Afar. From there, the family was moved from village to village -- and at one stage taken to Mosul. ``They wrote everyone's name down and they asked where we want to work, in the fields, as cleaners or as herders,'' she says. Ahlam and her family chose to herd goats. They were then taken to a Shia village whose residents had fled, where they were part of a group of around 40 living in one house. In the home, Ahlam found a cell phone left behind by its former occupants and called her husband. ``I said we are alive but we are prisoners.''. Ahlam's husband, who up until that moment had lost the will to live, thinking his family was dead, says he cried out of happiness despite his pain. Ahlam would call when she could, briefly, after midnight, hiding under her bedcovers. If she was caught with a phone, she would be killed. The village itself was a massive prison, its entrances guarded by ISIS fighters. She recalls that two men, in their late 40s or 50s, tried to escape. When they were caught, their bones were broken, their bodies tied to the back of a truck and then driven through the streets. The Yazidi captives were forced to watch the gruesome spectacle. The men's corpses were then tossed into a ditch and an order given not to bury them. One night, some of the Yazidi men risked their lives to toss dirt onto the bodies, to give those slain what dignity they could. Ahlam tells us that about a week before we met, ISIS fighters came by and took away her in-laws and the other elderly people living in the house. ``We didn't know where they were taking them, we thought we would be next,'' she remembers. So she and the rest of the group realized that they had to try to flee. ``We decided that either we survive or we don't.''. They left at midnight. Ahlam cradled the baby, as her two other children, ages 3 and 4 years old, clutched at her clothes. She prayed the baby wouldn't cry, that the children could keep walking. They knew the general direction to take, but not the exact route, and they could only hope it was toward freedom. ``When the sun started to come up, I thought that's it, we are going to get caught,'' Ahlam says. ``And what am I going to do with the kids ? I can't carry all three of them and run.''. Luckily, Ahlam never had to answer that impossible question. The group made it into Iraqi Kurdistan. The couple can't put into words their emotions when they were reunited. Mahmoud, gently caressing his daughter's palm, says he could hardly believe that the woman whose stunning eyes and gentle words he had fallen in love with, and their three children, were by his side again. It had been eight agonizing months. But their joy was tainted by fear for Mahmoud's parents. A few days after Mahmoud and Ahlam were reunited, ISIS released 217 captives. No one is disclosing exactly why. Among them were 60 children, a handful of men and women, and the rest were elderly -- including Mahmoud's parents. ``We didn't know if they were going to slaughter us or what they were going to do with us,'' Mahmoud's father says. ``They moved us around a lot, and at one stage we stayed in in one place for three days.''. But Ahlam's parents are still with ISIS. Vian Dakhil, a Yazidi member of Iraq's parliament, speculates that the Yazidis ISIS released are individuals they were struggling to care for. Dakhil is part of Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi's delegation to the United States this week. She will be addressing the United Nations -- pleading for more international support for Iraq and more airstrikes to help defeat ISIS -- and she will address the plight of the Yazidis. ``We sometimes say that we wish we had been massacred. This would be better than being kidnapped and raped. We prefer death now over the fate of what is happening to these girls and women,'' Dakhil says. ``It is now on the government and on the international community to focus on this. How to get these captives back. It's inconceivable that in the 21st century, something like this is happening as if we were living in the Stone Age.''. Ahlam says she was spared because she was breastfeeding and she had young children, which, we're told, makes her impure and therefore unable to be used as a sex slave. For Ahlam, what she went through was not the hardest part of her ordeal. It's the moment when the ISIS fighters began taking away the girls and young women. She's haunted by their screams, the image of them being dragged away sobbing and screaming.
Surkhet, Nepal ( CNN ) Ten years ago, with her high school diploma and a backpack, Maggie Doyne left her New Jersey hometown to travel the world before college. She lived in a Buddhist monastery, helped rebuild a sea wall in Fiji, then went to India and worked with Nepalese refugees. There, she met a young girl who wanted to find her family in Nepal. Doyne went with her. That's when Doyne's life took an unexpected turn. Do you know a hero ? Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015. A decade-long civil war had just ended in the country, and Doyne witnessed its effects firsthand. She met women and children who were suffering, struggling to survive. ``It changed me,'' said Doyne, now 28. ``There were children with mallets that would go into the riverbed, pick up a big stone and break it into little, little pieces ( to sell ). And they were doing that all day, every day.''. Doyne called her parents and asked them to wire her the $ 5,000 she had earned babysitting. In 2006, she purchased land in Surkhet, a district in western Nepal. She worked for two years with the local community to build the Kopila Valley Children's Home. Today, Kopila -- which means ``flower bud'' in Nepali -- is home to about 50 children, from infants to teenagers. Doyne started the BlinkNow Foundation to support and grow her efforts. In 2010, the group opened its Kopila Valley School, which today educates more than 350 students. Doyne lives in Nepal year-round, traveling to the U.S. a few times a year. See more CNN Heroes. The CNN Heroes team traveled to Surkhet and talked to Doyne about her work and the community she supports. Below is an edited version of their conversation. CNN : How does it work, raising nearly 50 kids ?. Maggie Doyne : It's communal living, for sure !. We're a family of almost 50 kids ages 8 months to 16 years. Everybody just pitches in and helps each other. They all have their chores. They all have their duties. And everybody cooks the meals together and makes sure that they do their part to make the home run smoothly. The staff at the home, we call them the aunties and the uncles. We wake up in the morning and go off to school. And then come home and do homework and eat our meals together, and everybody goes to bed at night. CNN : How does a child come to live in your home ?. Doyne : Our first priority as an organization is to keep a child with their family if at all possible. In order to come into the home, you need to have lost both parents, or in some rare cases have suffered extreme neglect, abuse or have a parent who's incarcerated. We have to conduct a full investigation. So usually that involves going to the child's village, making calls, doing police checks, getting documentation and paperwork. We have to dig up birth certificates, death certificates, make sure that everything lines up the way that they say it does. CNN : Meanwhile, you have 350 children attending your school. What is their background ?. Doyne : Every single year we'll get from 1,000 to 1,500 applicants. And we choose the ones who are the most needful and really won't be in school without us. Most of them live in one room, a mud hut. A lot of them are just in survival mode. We try to relieve the burden from the family, so that the child has food, medical care, books, zero fees for education. CNN : What have you learned working with the local community in Nepal ?. Doyne : I learned very early on, from the beginning, that I couldn't come in and just be like, ``Here, I have a vision. This is what we're going to do.'' That doesn't work. It has to be slow ; it has to be organic. And it has to come from the community and be a ``we'' thing. It's really important to me that this is a Nepali project, working for Nepal, for the community. So the faces that you see are strong Nepali women and amazing Nepali role-model men. CNN : How does the project continue to grow ?. Doyne : We started with the home and then school. We run the school lunch program. Then we needed to keep our kids really healthy, so we started a small clinic and then a counseling center. From there we started getting more sustainable and growing our own food. And then from there we decided to start a women's center. We just bought a new piece of property to create a totally green and sustainable off-the-grid campus. This year we converted to solar energy. So we'll have a high school and then a day care, preschool, elementary, all the way up, and a vocational center where kids can become a thriving young adult with everything they need to succeed moving forward. It's become so much more than just a little girl with a backpack and a big dream. It's become a community. And I want to teach and have other people take this example and hope this sets a precedent for what our world can be and look like. Want to get involved ? Check out the BlinkNow Foundation website at www.blinknow.org and see how to help.
( CNN ) ESPN suspended reporter Britt McHenry for a week after a video of her berating a towing company employee surfaced Thursday. The sports network announced her suspension on Twitter. McHenry posted an apology on Twitter, saying she allowed her emotions to get away from her during a stressful situation at a Virginia business. ``I.. said some insulting and regrettable things.''. ``As frustrated as I was, I should always choose to be respectful and take the high road. I am so sorry for my actions and will learn from this mistake,'' she wrote. On the roughly one-minute long video that was captured by a surveillance camera, McHenry says to an employee at a register : ``I'm in the news, sweetheart. I will ( expletive ) sue this place.''. The employee tells McHenry she's being recorded, but it doesn't stop her from continuing her rant. ``That's why I have a degree and you don't,'' she says. ``I wouldn't work at a scumbag place like this. Makes my skin crawl even being here.''. Later McHenry says, ``maybe if I was missing some teeth they would hire me, huh ?''. The employee apparently says something about McHenry's hair and the color of her roots. McHenry sasses back, saying, ``Oh, like yours,'cause they look so stunning,'cause I'm on television and you're in a ( expletive ) trailer, honey. Lose some weight, baby girl.''. CNN reached out to the Arlington towing company for comment but didn't hear immediately back. The edited video was first posted on the website LiveLeak, which said the incident occurred April 5. The video inspired the Twitter hashtag #firebrittmchenry. The reporter is one of several ESPN on-air talents to be suspended in the past 12 months. In February, anchor Keith Olbermann was not on the air for most of a week after a Twitter spat that the anchor had with fans of Penn State University. Bill Simmons was suspended in September for three weeks for calling NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell a liar. Commentator Stephen A. Smith was suspended in July for a week for widely criticized remarks about domestic abuse that referred to possible ``provocation'' by victims. How McHenry could have responded. McHenry is based in Washington and the incident happened across the Potomac River in Arlington. McHenry joined ESPN in 2014. At the time of her hiring, ESPN's senior vice president and director of news, Vince Doria, praised her knack for getting interviews with major sports celebrities. ``In a relatively short time, Britt has established a reputation for strong, aggressive reporting in the D.C. area, and an ability to land big interviews,'' said Doria. ``Her presence there will be a great benefit to ESPN's newsgathering and, as with all of our bureau reporters, she will be assigned to high-profile stories around the country.''. Before ESPN, she was with WJLA in Washington. McHenry joined the station in 2008 and the sports staff in 2010. She went to Stetson as an undergraduate and Northwestern for graduate studies in journalism. Opinion : Who's worse : Britt McHenry, or us ?
( CNN ) In case you haven't noticed, we're in the midst of a medical marijuana revolution. Given the amount of questions and mystery surrounding the science behind it, Dr. Sanjay Gupta wanted to provide some insight. He's been investigating medical marijuana for the last couple of years. His research has resulted in three CNN documentaries, culminating with ``Weed 3 : The Marijuana Revolution,'' airing at 9 p.m. ET/PT Sunday. Gupta opened up to questions on Twitter. Here's what you wanted to know :. How does this affect me ?. Readers were curious about the effects of medical marijuana in easing symptoms of various ailments, asking how it could help with everything from life-threatening illnesses and neurological conditions to chronic pain and post-traumatic stress disorder. Gupta pointed out the 10 diseases where medical marijuana research could have an impact and how it helped to stop one young girl's severe seizures, and he also referenced other studies. He said that the potential benefits of medical marijuana for people suffering from PTSD is actually the subject of a federally approved study. The belief : It could suppress dream recall and allow those sufferers to focus on the present. There is also research into how the drug might affect the spasms associated with people who have multiple sclerosis. Medical marijuana could also be an important option for those who rely on painkillers, as painkiller overdose is the greatest preventable death in the United States, Gupta said. Why don't other doctors talk about it ?. Many of the questions around medical marijuana can be tied back to the fact that it's just not discussed much. Teaching about medical marijuana remains taboo in medical school. But Gupta also presented the science directly, showing what your body on weed looks like. Readers also wanted to know why people are so against the legalization of marijuana. Decades of misinformation, Gupta said. What are the drawbacks ?. With medical marijuana so misunderstood, there naturally is a fear of potential side effects. There are legitimate, long-term concerns with the developing brain, Gupta said, and suggested that readers seek out the research of Dr. Staci Gruber, who has conducted numerous studies on marijuana use and brain function. Isn't it dangerous ?. When confronted with questions rooted in fear about the dangers of medical marijuana, Gupta confessed that he used to believe the same thing -- that marijuana is dangerous without proven benefits. After extensive research, he said he changed his mind on weed.
( CNN ) It's obvious that Tom Brady's love for his wife, model Gisele Bundchen, will never go out of fashion. Bundchen walked the runway for the last time Wednesday, and the New England Patriots quarterback wasn't just there to support her in person, he expressed his emotions to the world on Facebook. ``Congratulations Love of my Life,'' Brady wrote. ``You inspire me every day to be a better person. I am so proud of you and everything you have accomplished on the runway. I have never met someone with more of a will to succeed and determination to overcome any obstacle in the way. You never cease to amaze me. Nobody loves life more than you and your beauty runs much deeper than what the eye can see. I can't wait to see what's next. I love you.''. He followed the text with two hashtags, #GOAT ( ``greatest of all time'' ) and #thebestisyettocome. Bundchen, 34, announced her retirement from the catwalk last weekend. ``I am grateful that at 14, I was given the opportunity to start this journey. Today after 20 years in the industry, it is a privilege to be doing my last fashion show by choice and yet still be working in other facets of the business,'' the Brazilian-born model wrote on Instagram. Supermodel Gisele Bundchen struts her stuff a final time. Bundchen was the highest-paid model in 2014, according to Forbes magazine, with a total $ 47 million in contracts. She is the face of Chanel and Carolina Herrera and has her own line of lingerie. Bundchen and Brady have been married since 2009. The couple has two children. What's next for Bundchen ? Based on an interview she did with Brazil's Estado de S. Paulo newspaper, sounds like more quality time with Brady and their children. ``I want to be with my family more and focus on special projects,'' she said. CNN's Shasta Darlington contributed to this story.
( CNN ) The boy who asked a church to help him find a forever parent finally has one. Desperate for a home in 2013, Davion Navar Henry Only dressed up in a suit and borrowed a Bible from the boys home where he lived. Then he headed to a St. Petersburg, Florida, church to make a plea for his own adoption. Now 16 years old, he had lived his entire life in foster care, bouncing from one home to another. The older he got, the less likely it was that he would be adopted. But the Tampa Bay Times documented his journey, and a video of his plea went viral. Thousands of calls came into his agency, and a minster's family in Ohio asked him to come live with them. But he got into a fight with one of their sons, and they sent him back to Florida. Forever wasn't forever in that case. And to the people who asked what went wrong, his social worker had the answer. ``That boy spent his whole life in the system, that's what went wrong,'' Connie Going told the Tampa Bay Times. Photo helps gets teen adopted. For a year, he went through four more foster homes and wouldn't speak about what happened in Ohio. Finally, he reached out to Going, the woman who had been there for him since he was 7. Only had repeatedly asked her to adopt him, but she didn't think that she could be enough for him. She already had three children, ages 21, 17 and 14. But something changed in that latest call, and she knew she would finally say yes. So did her three children. Going rented a larger house, and Only moved into the home after his new mom passed the home study. His official adoption date is April 22. ``I guess I always thought of you as my mom,'' Only told her before Christmas. ``Only now I get to call you that for real, right ?''
( CNN ) More than 300 suspects have been arrested in South Africa in connection with deadly attacks on foreigners that have forced thousands to flee, the government said Sunday. ``We once again unequivocally condemn the maiming and killing of our brothers and sisters from other parts of the continent,'' the government said. ``No amount of frustration or anger can justify these attacks and looting of shops.''. Thousands sought refuge in temporary shelters after mobs with machetes attacked immigrants in Durban. The attacks in Durban killed two immigrants and three South Africans, including a 14-year-old boy, authorities said. Heavily armed police have scrambled to stop clashes after local residents accused immigrants from other African nations of taking their jobs. The government praised law enforcement agencies for stopping further bloodshed in Durban. ``We believe that their commitment to duty has prevented injuries and even deaths that could have happened if they security forces had not acted,'' it said. The xenophobic sentiment is certainly not representative of all South Africans. ``There has been an outpouring of support from ordinary South Africans who are disgusted with the attacks not only because they are foreign, or African, but because they are fellow human beings,'' said Gift of the Givers charity, which is helping those seeking refuge. The charity said last week that about 8,500 people had fled to refugee centers or police stations because of the violence. South Africa's government implored citizens to remember the country's history of overcoming challenges with the support of African neighbors. ``During the Apartheid many South Africans fled persecution and death at the hands of the Apartheid government,'' it said in its statement. ``Africa opened its doors and became a home away from home for many South Africans.''. President Jacob Zuma has canceled a trip to Indonesia and visited displaced foreign nationals in Chatsworth to express his support, the government said. The Gift of the Givers charity assured immigrants that it has a facility in Johannesburg to help those who might need shelter there. ``We have tents and all essential supplies on standby but pray that sanity prevails and this does not become necessary,'' it said. In the past, Johannesburg has been the epicenter of anti-immigrant tensions. In 2008, scores were killed in attacks in the poorest areas of Johannesburg. Most of the victims were Zimbabweans who had fled repression and dire economic circumstances. In that attack, police arrested more than 200 people for various crimes including rape, murder, robbery and theft. CNN's Larry Register contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A group of six young Minnesota men conspired to sneak into Syria and join ISIS ``by any means necessary,'' federal prosecutors said Monday. The group of friends, ages 19 to 21, were arrested Sunday. ``What's remarkable about this case was that nothing stopped these defendants from plotting their goal,'' said U.S. Attorney Andrew M. Luger of the District of Minnesota. ``They were not confused young men. They were not easily influenced. These are focused men who are intent on joining a terrorist organization by any means possible.''. Recruiting for the ISIS terrorist network is a particular problem in Minnesota's community of Somali immigrants. ``People often ask who is doing the recruiting and when will we catch the person responsible,'' Luger said. ``But it is not that simple. In today's case, the answer is that this group of friends is recruiting each other. They're engaged in what we describe as peer-to-peer recruiting.''. Zacharia Yusuf Abdurahman, 19 ; Adnan Farah, 19 ; Hanad Mustafe Musse, 19 ; and Guled Ali Omar, 20, were arrested in Minneapolis. Abdirahman Yasin Daud, 21, and Mohamed Abdihamid Farah, 21, were arrested in San Diego after driving there in hopes of crossing into Mexico, Luger said. They plotted for 10 months, Luger said. ``Even when their co-conspirators were caught and charged, they continued to seek new and creative ways to leave Minnesota to fight for a terror group.''. Another friend, who was part of the group, changed his mind and became a cooperating witness for the FBI, even tape recording some meetings, Luger said. The FBI investigation has previously netted Abdullahi Yusuf, who has pleaded guilty to conspiring to provide material support to ISIS, and Hamza Ahmed, who has been indicted on charges of conspiring and attempting to provide material support to ISIS and is now pending trial, according to the criminal complaint. The complaint describes a man, identified only as ``Nur,'' who has spent time in Syria and allegedly helped the six accused men. Four of the men who were arrested appeared in federal court on Monday but did not enter a plea. The judge ordered they all be held without bail, and a detention hearing was scheduled for Wednesday. CNN's Tony Marco contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A freshly fallen tree in the roadway was Jason Warnock's first clue. Warnock was driving through a canyon in Lewiston, Idaho, on Wednesday when he saw the tree, then looked up to see an SUV dangling over the edge of a cliff. The only thing holding the GMC Yukon and its terrified driver from a 30-foot drop was a crumpled chain-link fence, still clinging to the earth above Bryden Canyon Road. ``I seen that guy hanging there and he was trying to beat the window out or the door open and I was like `Oh man,''cause only like five links were hanging there,'' Warnock told KXLY, a CNN affiliate. ``I was like, I got ta do something and no one was doing anything.''. What Warnock did next, captured in a dramatic photo by Lewiston Tribune photographer Barry Kough, made headlines around the world. Warnock dashed from his car and scrambled up a hill to the Yukon and its driver, 23-year-old Matthew Sitko, who appeared to be in shock. ``I got up there and I was like, `Are you alright man ?' He shook his head, yeah. I grabbed my Snap-on multi-tool and it had jagged edges on each end. I hit the window three times and it didn't break. Every time I hit it, the thing rocked like it was going to fall off,'' Warnock told KXLY. Sitko was finally able to get the passenger-side window down. Warnock then reached in and pulled Sitko out to safety -- a moment recorded by Kough's camera. Then Warnock disappeared. ``I left and got out of there before anyone knew who I was,'' he said. He remained an unknown good Samaritan, his identity a mystery, until Kough's picture of the daring rescue appeared in the Lewiston paper and spread across the Internet. ``I don't feel like I deserve any credit or anything,'' Warnock said. ``I just did what anyone would do, went right back to work.''. Thanks to Warnock, Sitko went to the hospital with just minor injuries. ``The Lewiston Police Department would like to thank Jason Warnock for his quick and decisive actions in helping Mr. Sitko and preventing the situation from worsening,'' said Roger Lanier, the interim police chief. Warnock told KXLY he didn't want or expect all the attention and would rather be fishing in the mountains than reading about himself.
Moscow ( CNN ) Joy Womack is taking part in her first ballet class of the day at the Kremlin Ballet Theatre, kicking her legs up to her head, jumping and spinning across the room. After class, she eats boiled sweets, one after another -- they are a cheap form of energy. The dancer, raised in California and Texas, left her parents and eight brothers and sisters behind when she arrived in Russia six years ago, aged 15, speaking no Russian. She studied at the Bolshoi Ballet Academy and was one of the first Americans accepted from the school into the company. But in 2013 she left under a cloud -- media reports suggested she had claimed she was asked by an unnamed Boshoi official to pay $ 10,000 to dance in even small roles. The Bolshoi still stands by comments made at the time by its general director, Vladimir Urin. He asked the dancer to make an official complaint and defend her position legally, saying the theatre was ready to assist the law enforcement agencies to investigate the case and that ``if the facts are legally established, those responsible should be punished accordingly.'' The dancer did not pursue a case against the Bolshoi. When she left the Bolshoi in 2013, Womack joined the Kremlin Ballet Theatre where she still works, aged 20, as a principal ballerina ; dancing close to the Russian president's office, next to the cathedrals inside the red walls of the Kremlin. The surroundings may be opulent but her pay packet is not : for her role as a principal dancer Womack says she is paid around $ 240 a month -- which works out at around $ 8 a day. The dancer says the amount of money she makes in dollars each month has fallen as the Russian ruble has weakened -- the currency has suffered, in part, from a low oil price and international sanctions imposed on Russia over its annexation of Crimea last year. Womack says a friend helps her with accommodation and she says she has to make the money stretch in order to buy food. ``For anyone paid a salary in rubles, especially since the crisis, it is extremely difficult. You have to decide what is worth more for you - experience or financial stability. I'm at a point in my life where experience is worth more.''. Sitting in the wings of the stage, chatting in Russian to the other dancers and stretching before her rehearsal for Swan Lake, she says she has to make the $ 185 in her bank account last for the next few weeks. To earn extra money she dances bigger roles or takes part in events abroad. The Kremlin Ballet Theatre says Womack's salary corresponds to her job title as a principal dancer and that, ``on average, the salary -LSB- principal -RSB- dancers are paid is significantly higher'' than $ 240 a month but that Womack could have been paid that equivalent in dollars ``depending on the exchange rate on the day and depending on how much she danced in productions the previous month.''. As an American, Womack says she is paid the same as her contemporaries and is treated just like the Russians. But she says that is not always the case offstage. ``It's extremely difficult to watch the deteriorating relationships between the United States and Russia. The great thing about working for a Russian company is that we are focused on creating art but.. outside the ballet world it is difficult for foreigners ; the general tendency tends to be more nationalistic and they unfortunately judge foreigners by their cover.''. Although relations between the U.S. and Russia have taken a nosedive since Russia's annexation of Crimea last March, Womack says she is ``very loyal'' to the Kremlin Ballet Theatre. ``I love the Russian system and I'm very patriotic in that sense,'' she says. And despite the political situation -- and the money -- she says, ``Russia has a lot to offer, it is a beautiful place that creates stars and that itself is worth investing one's career in.
( CNN ) The greater adjutant stork is a majestic bird. Standing about 5 feet tall with an average wingspan of 8 feet, it soars over the Boragaon landfill like a great protector. It knows the residents and shies away from strangers. ``They are intelligent birds. Every time I got close to them they would fly away,'' photographer Timothy Bouldry said. The dirty, wet conditions of the landfill attracted the endangered stork, and the stork attracted Bouldry. Through a series of photos taken within a day, he captures what it's like to live inside one of the largest dumping grounds in India. The Boragaon landfill is located in the city of Guwahati, about 300 miles from Bangladesh near the Bhutanese border. It's 94 acres of mostly fresh waste, surrounded by swamplands. ( Other landfills, Bouldry says, contain older, compacted trash. ). For the past seven years, Bouldry has traveled the world photographing landfills. He's visited places such as Haiti, Venezuela and Colombia. The greater adjutant stork initially drew Bouldry to Boragaon, but he became connected with the people. About 100 families live inside the Boragaon landfill. Every day, they search the area for treasure -- a tiny scrap of metal, a bit of plastic, maybe a bone. They use large hooks to sort through the garbage, which sometimes reaches two or three stories high. They work in teams, and more than often they are barefoot. ``They don't look at the things they're doing as being unsanitary or unhealthy or unsafe,'' Bouldry said. They collect plastic, metal and wires and sell it by the pound. The families make around $ 2 per day. Their homes are constructed by recycled materials, with sometimes several families living in one shanty at a time. With no electricity, no running water -- and an overabundance of trash -- they are experts at repurposing. ``You might see a refrigerator being used as a closet,'' he said. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Some of the children living in Boragaon go to school on scholarship, but most of them work in the landfill to provide for their families. But don't be deceived : The people living here feel anything but destitute. Bouldry uses words such as ``love,'' ``hope'' and ``spirituality'' to describe them. ``I found that the landfill community is content,'' Bouldry said. ``They are not jaded by modern civilization.''. Bouldry lives and works inside the La Chureca landfill in Nicaragua, one of the largest landfills in the world. He helps the people living there grow gardens fertilized with compost he makes with organic waste from local smoothie shops. In addition to his photography, he teaches English and yoga classes a few times per week. But why ? Bouldry went to art school in Boston. He's no stranger to sophisticated civilization. He said he found humanitarian photo projects to be the most fulfilling, and he became especially intrigued by landfills even though they are ``scary, dirty and kind of grotesque.''. ``This is my `thank you' to the informal recyclers of the world,'' he said. Timothy Bouldry is a photographer based in New Hampshire. You can follow him on Facebook and Twitter.
( CNN ) Wealthy Nigerians used to travel abroad to get their fix of luxury goods. However these days, they can take a stroll around Victoria Island, an exclusive neighborhood in Lagos where brands like Porsche, Hugo Boss and Ermenegildo Zegna line the streets. The Nigerian city is among African metropolises which have seen some of the highest growth in the number of millionaires on the continent. Others include Luanda, Dar es Salaam and Accra, which is predicted to nearly double its millionaire count from 800 in 2012 to 1,500 in 2020. If the growth continues, these cities could join an existing club of African wealth hubs hosting the so-called ultra-high net worth individuals, typically those with over $ 30 million of net assets excluding their primary residence. These centers of affluence are spread from Johannesburg in the south, through Lagos in the west and Nairobi in the east, to Cairo in the north. This emerging class of Africa's new millionaires has been pushing the demand for luxury products across the continent, with sales of high-end products growing by a third between 2008 and 2013. However, they are no longer concentrated in southern Africa, traditionally the wealthiest part of the continent. Nigeria is now one of the fastest growing markets for French Champagne and digital televisions according to a report by Deloitte, and in 2013 LVMH's seven Nigerian branches outsold its 600 South African stores. ``Africa is one of the fastest growing regions in terms of middle class,'' says Fflur Roberts, head of luxury at Euromonitor, a market research provider. ``It's due to a mix of rising incomes, rising population but also growth slowing in other emerging markets.''. Luxury brands tend to enter country markets through distributors, benefiting from local knowledge of their partners but still retaining a significant amount of control over how their name is marketed in that country. ``Getting a new brand in a new market where they don't fully understand the operating environment would be very dangerous for that brand,'' explains Roberts. She warns that in spite of potential, the future of luxury in Africa is dependent on reforms taking place : ``It will rely on infrastructure and the operating environment such as security and how trading is done,'' she says. When it comes to what they choose to splash their cash on, Africa's rich like to stick to well-known global labels that carry an automatic badge of status. ``Generally the brands they buy will be more ostentatious compared to somebody in the more developed, mature markets. It's going to be the Louis Vuitton, the Gucci, the Prada,'' says Roberts. She adds that this could be down to the fact that typical a luxury consumer in Africa is much younger than those in mature markets such as Western Europe, who tend to be in their 50s and 60s. ``They are in their late twenties or thirties so it's very much new wealth, and they will be looking towards luxury as a means of showing status and success,'' says Roberts. However, in spite of mainstream brand's dominance, smaller home-grown labels also see the growth in appetite for luxury goods as a valuable opportunity. ``Africa has all the foundations that are needed to create a real vibrant luxury industry,'' says Swaady Martin Leke, Ivorian entrepreneur and founder of the Johannesburg-based luxury tea brand Yswara. ``We have the craftsmanship, we have the heritage, we have a very rich culture that doesn't date just 20 years, but centuries, thousands and thousands of years of know-how and craftsmanship. So here is this continent where you have all the raw material and the know-how, but what is missing is the link to luxury. ``Now is the time and you need to start positioning yourself, because Africa is getting richer, that's for sure,'' she adds. More from Africa View. Read this : Ethiopia - a land where coffee meets tradition. Read this : Why Kenya is the flower garden of Europe.
( CNN ) Remember the Tuskegee syphilis experiment from the 1930s ?. Scientists studied poor African-Americans in Alabama who'd contracted the venereal disease but didn't tell them they had the disease or do anything to cure them. A lawsuit filed this week alleges Johns Hopkins University and the Rockefeller Foundation helped conduct a similar study in Guatemala from 1945 to 1956. Orphans, inmates, psychiatric patients and prostitutes were deliberately infected with sexually transmitted diseases to determine what drugs, including penicillin, worked best in stopping the diseases, the lawsuit says. The subjects of the experiments weren't told they'd been infected, the lawsuit says, causing some to die and others to pass the disease to their spouses, sexual partners and children. The suit seeks more than $ 1 billion in damages and has 774 plaintiffs, including people who were subjects in the experiments and their descendants. This is the second attempt to collect damages. In 2012, a class-action federal lawsuit was filed against the U.S. government over the Guatemala experiments conducted by the U.S. Public Health Service. A judge dismissed it, saying the Guatemalans could not sue the United States for grievances that happened overseas. The new lawsuit was filed in the Baltimore City Circuit Court. Johns Hopkins and the Rockefeller Foundation filed statements on their websites condemning the experiments, but denying responsibility. ``The plaintiffs' essential claim in this case is that prominent Johns Hopkins faculty members' participation on a government committee that reviewed funding applications was tantamount to conducting the research itself and that therefore Johns Hopkins should be held liable,'' the Johns Hopkins statement said. ``Neither assertion is true.''. The lawsuit alleges the Rockefeller Foundation funded Johns Hopkins' research into public health issues, including venereal disease, and employed scientists who monitored the Guatemala experiments. The lawsuit, the Rockefeller Foundation statement said, ``seeks improperly to assign `guilt by association' in the absence of compensation from the United States federal government.''. The suit says Johns Hopkins and the Rockefeller Foundation designed, supported and benefited from the Guatemala experiments. Bristol-Myers Squibb pharmaceutical group and that company's owner, Mead Johnson, also are defendants. The pharmaceutical company supplied drugs for the experiments, the suit says. On Saturday, a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers Squibb sent this statement to CNN : ``We've only just received the complaint in this matter. Bristol-Myers Squibb played an important role in the development of penicillin in the past and today we continue to focus our work on developing breakthrough medicines for serious disease. As a company dedicated to patients, we take this matter very seriously and are reviewing the allegations.''. Nobody doubts the experiments happened. In 2010, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton apologized to Guatemala for the experiments, saying they were ``clearly unethical.''. In the 1930s and 1940s, the government followed a policy of funding scientific medical research but not controlling individual doctors, the suit says. The lawsuit says John Hopkins controlled and influenced the appointed panels that authorized funding for research into venereal disease. The lawsuit says prostitutes were infected to intentionally spread the disease and that syphilis spirochetes were injected into the spinal fluid of subjects. A woman in a psychiatric hospital had gonorrhea pus from a male subject injected into both her eyes, the suit says. The lawsuit doesn't say why the experiments ended. The results were never published and were not revealed until 2011, when the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues wrote a letter to President Barack Obama telling of its investigation, the suit says. CNN's Deanna Hackney contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Here you go, galaxy. The Force is back. At an emotional event in Anaheim, California, director J.J. Abrams and the ``Star Wars : Episode VII -- The Force Awakens'' cast showed off for the audience and then capped the presentation with the trailer for the new film. The audience gasped, cheered and applauded. The cast was appreciative of the welcome. ``You're more than fans. You're family,'' Mark Hamill told the crowd. Carrie Fisher was also there, though without her trademark Princess Leia hair buns. They're ``retired,'' she said. Airline unveils `Star Wars' 787 Dreamliner painted like R2-D2. Also introduced : ``Star Wars'' emoji, some new Stormtroopers and the BB8, the soccer-ball-like droid that rolled around the stage, to the delight of the audience. It wasn't CGI, either, as much of the movie, Abrams said, was filmed on actual sets. Twitter erupted with near-instantaneous reaction, most of it enthusiastic. CNNMoney : `Star Wars' teaser sends Twitter into lightspeed. The new ``Star Wars'' is due out December 18. CNN's Henry Hanks was in the audience. Here are his five top takeaways from the event :. 1. Han flies again. The trailer ended in a big way, with Han Solo and Chewbacca having apparently arrived after a flight on the Millennium Falcon. The reaction in the room of fans was nothing short of rapturous upon seeing Harrison Ford back in character as Han. A few burst into tears at the end of the the 110-second teaser. 2. That's not Tatooine. Abrams revealed that their shooting location was not meant to represent the Skywalker ancestral home of Tatooine, as many believed. Instead, it's a planet called Jakku, where much of the early action of the movie takes place. Daisy Ridley's Rey meets up with a stromtrooper, Finn ( John Boyega ) and that's where the adventure begins. 3. Hints of Luke and Leia. Oscar Isaac dropped a major hint that his pilot character of Poe is sent on a mission by ``a princess,'' and we're fairly certain which one he meant. Leia and Luke aren't seen in the trailer, but we hear Luke's unmistakable voice as he passes along a lightsaber, presumably to other Skywalker family members. Carrie Fisher also teased her new wardrobe, and promised no metal bikini. 4. There's less CGI than in the prequels. Abrams said he was proud that ``you can watch the movie and see what it is'' before the effects wizards at Industrial Light and Magic did their work. And yes, the new droid BB-8 ( who was a fan favorite at the panel ) is not CGI. 5. The ruins of the Empire are all around. A crashed Star Destroyer can be seen at the opening of the trailer, as well as a look at Vader's charred helmet. Chills. Creating the sounds of `Star Wars'. CNN's Henry Hanks contributed to this story.
( CNN ) ``Real Housewives of Beverly Hills'' star and former child actress Kim Richards is accused of kicking a police officer after being arrested Thursday morning. Richards was taken into custody by police at the Beverly Hills Hotel on accusations of trespassing, resisting arrest and public intoxication after security personnel complained that she was bothering hotel guests about 1:30 a.m. `Real Housewives of Atlanta' cast member's mother dies. A police representative said Richards was asked to leave but refused and then entered a restroom and wouldn't come out. Hotel security made a ``private persons arrest,'' then police entered the restroom and took Richards into custody. ``Ms. Richards was displaying symptoms of alcohol intoxication including slurred speech and belligerent insolent behavior, cursing at the officers and passively resisted arrest,'' police said in a statement. ``After being transported to the station for booking, Richards kicked one of the officers in the leg ; however the officer was not injured.''. Richards is expected to face misdemeanor charges, according to Lt. Lincoln Hoshino of the Beverly Hills Police Department. She has been released from custody. A call to Richards' representatives has not been returned. Richards reportedly entered rehab in 2011 for ``serious issues'' after what watchers deemed erratic behavior on the reality show, which also features her sister Kyle Richards. The Richardses are the aunts of former TV star Paris Hilton. `Real Housewives of Atlanta' husband gets prison. Kim Richards appeared in Disney's ``Escape to Witch Mountain'' and ``Wonderful World of Color'' as a child and was a frequent guest star on television series, though her acting career later stalled. She had a significant role in the 2006 film ``Black Snake Moan.''. Bravo, the network that airs the ``Real Housewives'' franchise, declined to comment on her arrest.
( CNN ) Two deputies involved in the fatal attempt to arrest Eric Harris in Tulsa, Oklahoma, have been reassigned because of threats against them and their families, Sheriff Stanley Glanz said Monday in a news conference. The deputies were trying to arrest Harris when Reserve Deputy Robert Bates shot him. Unlike Bates, they are not charged with a crime, but have come under criticism for pinning Harris' head to the ground as he said, ``I'm losing my breath.'' Police appear on video saying, ``F*ck your breath,'' apparently in response. Sheriff Stanley Glanz didn't specify the nature of the threats, but said he was ``very concerned'' for their safety and that of their families. He did not say what the deputies had been assigned to do. Another sheriff's official said the office has temporarily suspended operations of the agency's drug unit pending the review of the April 2 shooting of Harris following a weapons sting. Glanz indicated he has not yet decided how to proceed with a review of their actions, saying any action may be delayed until after the court case involving Bates has been settled. Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter in Harris' death. Bates, who is free on $ 25,000 bond pending trial, shot Harris with his handgun after calling out, ``Taser, Taser,'' -- an indication he planned to use a stun gun to subdue Harris following a brief foot chase with the other deputies. Amid questions about his age -- 73 -- training and friendship with Glanz, Bates has said the shooting was accidental, and has apologized to the family. Lawyer releases training records for Tulsa deputy charged in killing. On Monday, Glanz also apologized to Harris' family. ``We are sorry Eric was taken from you,'' he said. But he said his office holds itself to the highest national standards of policing, and said Monday that the FBI had cleared the agency of any civil rights violations in the shooting. Bates is white. Harris was black. There have been allegations, first reported by the Tulsa World newspaper, that some of Bates' training records had been forged, or that he was unqualified to be serving on the force. The sheriff denied those allegations, saying he was certain Bates had qualified on the gun range and had extensive additional training. He said he was unaware of any forgery involving training records, and said he had not issued any training waivers for Bates, with whom he has been friends for more than two decades. But he said he supported prosecutor's decision to proceed with the case. He also said he had brought in a Dallas police consultant who had previously examined the office's policies and procedures for another look. Harris' family has said the shooting reveals ``a deep-seated problem'' within the department and has demanded justice, and changes in policy.
( CNN ) The bored teenager who gunned down a college baseball player in Oklahoma simply because he and his two friends ``had nothing to do,'' is now a convicted murderer. Chancey Allen Luna was found guilty of first-degree murder Friday for his role in the August 2013 drive-by shooting of Christopher Lane, a 23-year-old college student in Duncan, about 80 miles south of Oklahoma City. Luna was 16 at the time of the shooting. Lane, an Australian attending East Central University, was jogging when he was shot in the back by a gun fired by Luna. A jury recommended Friday that Luna spend life in prison without the possibility of parole, according to court records. Because he was under 18 when the crime was committed, he is not eligible for the death penalty. He'll be formally sentenced in June. The vehicle's driver, Michael Jones, pleaded guilty in March to second-degree murder and was sentenced to life in prison. Jones, who was 17 at the time of the murder, will be eligible for parole starting in 2051, according to the Oklahoma Department of Corrections. Prosecutors dropped first-degree murder charges filed against the third suspect, then only 15, after he agreed to testify against Luna and Jones, according to CNN affiliate KSWO. He will now be tried as a juvenile with accessory to murder after the fact. Duncan police Chief Danny Ford told Australian radio station 3AW that when police arrested the teens, Jones offered a motive that made clear that Lane, a baseball player on scholarship, was chosen at random. ``We were bored and didn't have anything to do, so we decided to kill somebody.''. After the verdict, Luna appeared to be crying as deputies led him out of the courtroom in handcuffs, whimpering ``I'm sorry'' to a reporter. CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
Tokyo ( CNN ) A Japanese court has issued a landmark injunction halting plans to restart two nuclear reactors in the west of the country, citing safety concerns, a court official told CNN. Japan's nuclear watchdog, the Nuclear Regulation Authority, had previously given a green light to the reopening of reactors 3 and 4 of the Kansai Electric Power Company's Takahama nuclear plant. But locals successfully petitioned the court in Fukui Prefecture, where the plant is located, raising concerns about whether the reactors would survive a strong earthquake. Japan's 48 nuclear reactors are offline in the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011, when a tsunami triggered by a massive earthquake sent a wall of water crashing into the power plant. Since then, the island nation has imported greater amounts of expensive natural gas and coal to meet its energy needs. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pushed for a return to nuclear energy, arguing it is essential to the country's economic recovery to reduce the skyrocketing utility bills associated with energy imports. But opinion polls have consistently shown public opposition to a nuclear restart. Keith Henry, managing director of Tokyo-based Asia Strategy, which advises businesses on Japanese public policy issues, says the decision will force Abe to rethink the economics of his energy policy. ``That was a body blow -LSB- for Abe -RSB- because it's no longer a political issue, it's a legal issue. It changes the calculus and the dynamics,'' he said. ``It's now in the courts. And the government is powerless to do anything about it.''. READ MORE : Power company abandons robot stranded inside Fukushima plant. Anti-nuclear activists celebrated following the Fukui District Court's decision in their favor Tuesday. The nuclear plant operator had argued in court that the plant was safe, meeting heightened safety regulations introduced by the nuclear watchdog following the Fukushima disaster. It said in a statement that ``scientific and professional findings'' showed that the safety of the reactors was assured. But the court ruled that the new safety standards were ``loose,'' lacked rationality and could not guarantee the safety of the plant, an official said. The power company said it would appeal the decision. ``We deeply regret that our assertion was not well comprehended, and can not accept it at all,'' it said in a statement. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters Tuesday that the country's nuclear watchdog had deemed the plant safe according to the ``world's strictest'' safety standards. The government had no intention to change course on its planned nuclear restart, he said. Takahama was one of two nuclear facilities granted approval to resume operations. Sendai nuclear power plant in Kagoshima Prefecture has been granted approval to reopen by the prefecture's governor, although local residents are seeking to challenge this in court. Analyst Henry said the renewable energy sector could benefit from the Takahama decision, as the country weighed solar and hydro power as alternatives. Prior to the Fukushima disaster, about 30 % of Japan's energy was nuclear generated. CNN's Junko Ogura contributed to this report from Tokyo.
( CNN ) The jailing of four Blackwater security guards, eight years after they killed 17 Iraqi civilians in a shooting in Baghdad, is a positive step for justice -- but is also not enough. The kind of horror represented by the Blackwater case and others like it -- from Abu Ghraib to the massacre at Haditha to CIA waterboarding -- may be largely absent from public memory in the West these days, but it is being used by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) to support its sectarian narrative. In its propaganda, ISIS has been using Abu Ghraib and other cases of Western abuse to legitimize its current actions in Iraq as the latest episodes in over a decade of constant ``Sunni resistance'' to ``American aggression'' and to ``Shiite betrayal'' -- as phrased in an ISIS publication from late 2014 titled ``The Revived Caliphate,'' which chronicles the rise of ISIS since 2003. As the Iraqi government today struggles to regain the support of Sunnis in its fight against ISIS -- or even renew intra-Sunni trust -- this invocation of American transgressions by ISIS should be a sobering reminder of the importance of good governance in the pursuit of a solution to the unrest in Iraq. The lack of accountability in the aftermath of the American intervention in Iraq not only paved the way for abuses like Abu Ghraib and Blackwater, it also fuelled sectarian tension in the country -- and today ISIS is reaping the benefits. The U.S. poured money into Iraq after the 2003 invasion, but it did not make this support contingent upon a fair distribution of power and resources by the Iraqi government. This enabled the Shiite-dominated government of former Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki to discriminate against the Sunni community. The United States was also sloppy in relying on private security firms like Blackwater without implementing rigorous measures to regulate their behavior. It also turned a blind eye to the way its own troops were treating Iraqis. All those factors contributed to a rising sense of injustice that is now being conveniently packaged by ISIS to push its own version of Iraqi history. In ``The Revived Caliphate,'' Abu Ghraib is invoked three times as the place where Iraqi Sunnis who resisted the U.S. ended up as a result of their betrayal by Shiites who collaborated with the Americans. The publication first recounts attacks on Abu Ghraib at the height of the American intervention by al Qaeda in Iraq ( AQI ) -- ISIS' predecessor -- to free imprisoned ``Sunnis'' who had been detained by the Americans. It then presents the Sahwa ( Awakening ) of 2007 -- when Sunni tribes collaborated with the U.S. to fight AQI -- as a case of intra-Sunni resentment that led the tribes to hand over AQI members ``to the Americans, where they were put through severe torture in the likes of the prisons of Abu Ghraib,'' according to the publication. It then links those two stories to the storming of the prison by ISIS in 2013 to free those who had been tortured by ``the Americans and Shi'a'' ( as the publication puts it ) over ten years. In bridging a decade of history and in placing the Shiites squarely in the category of ``enemy,'' ISIS is sending a strong message that its current fight in Iraq is about reversing longstanding injustices against Sunnis and restoring a sense of Sunni belonging under the umbrella of the ``caliphate.''. The civilians killed by the Blackwater guards, like the Abu Ghraib prisoners, were both Sunni and Shiite. But the repackaging of history by ISIS -- in which the Saddam Hussein regime is reinvented as a ``Sunni'' regime that tried to stand up to the United States and its Shiite allies -- glosses over those nuances. The reproduced images of Abu Ghraib prisoners in the aforementioned ISIS publication, juxtaposed with images of civilian deaths as a result of U.S. airstrikes against ISIS targets, are presented as ``proof'' of the group's narrative. And they are reinforced with text that frames America today as ``the air force of the Shi'a.''. It is becoming clear that ISIS can not be defeated in Iraq without buy-in from the country's Sunnis. Without Sunni help, ISIS will continue to frame the conflict as one where Sunnis are once again being attacked by the U.S. and the Shiites -- particularly as Shiite militias have become a key part of the fight against the terror group in places like Tikrit. To balance out this Shiite involvement, the U.S. and Iraqi governments are counting on the establishment of a cross-sectarian Iraqi national guard, and hoping to resurrect the ``awakening'' to re-engage and unify the Sunnis under a nationalist umbrella. But those plans will not succeed unless serious steps are taken to ensure that good governance measures are in place to hold both Iraqis and all those affiliated with the anti-ISIS coalition to account. This should not just apply in the context of the current conflict -- so that scenarios like Abu Ghraib and Blackwater are not repeated -- but also when the dust settles. Good governance is the most effective antidote to sectarianism.
( CNN ) Debates on climate change can break down fairly fast. There are those who believe that mankind's activities are changing the planet's climate, and those who don't. But a new way to talk about climate change is emerging, which shifts focus from impersonal discussions about greenhouse gas emissions and power plants to a very personal one : your health. It's easy to brush aside debates involving major international corporations, but who wouldn't stop to think -- and perhaps do something -- about their own health, or the health of their children ?. This new way of talking about climate change -- and linking it to public health issues -- was part of a roundtable discussion Tuesday at Howard University's College of Medicine. President Barack Obama joined U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy for a roundtable discussion on the topic as part of National Public Health Week. ``I think we've always known -- or at least in the 20th century we've understood -- that environment has an impact on public health,'' the President told CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta. ``I remember when I first went to college in Los Angeles in 1979, the air was so bad that you couldn't go running outside,'' Obama said. ``You'd have air quality alerts, and people who had respiratory problems or were vulnerable had to stay inside. We took action, and the air's a lot better.''. ``There are a whole host of public health impacts that are going to hit home, so we've got to do better in protecting vulnerable Americans,'' Obama continued. ``Ultimately, though, all of our families are going to be vulnerable. You can't cordon yourself off from air or climate.''. Murthy revealed to the group that asthma is a personal issue for him, as a favorite uncle died from a severe attack when he was younger. ``It's also personal to me because I've cared for many patients over the years who have suffered from asthma and have seen firsthand how frightening it can be to suddenly be wheezing and fighting for every breath,'' Murthy said. ``Asthma can be very difficult for patients, but also for their families. The impacts of climate change could make the situation worse.''. ``This is not just a future threat -- this is a present threat,'' said Brian Deese, a senior adviser to the President. Deese cited a recent study by the American Thoracic Society that found seven out of 10 doctors reported climate change is contributing to more health problems among their patients. ``The good news is that, in addition to having doctors and nurses, public health officials, schools of medicine joining together to raise awareness -- and to in some cases impact their practice -- they anticipate, for example, increased asthma instances, and plan ahead of time to deal with those,'' Obama told Gupta. ``What we have is companies like Google and Microsoft that are going to take data we're releasing and start developing apps so that, potentially, individual families are going to be able to monitor the air quality in their communities in a real-time basis.''. ``Communities can start planning for prevention and mitigation efforts more effectively, and hopefully the other thing that happens is that families and parents join with these doctors and nurses to start putting some pressure on elected officials to try to make something happen to reduce the impacts of climate change,'' said Obama. The impacts of climate change on health will depend on a multitude of factors, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. ``These factors include the effectiveness of a community's public health and safety systems to address or prepare for the risk and the behavior, age, gender, and economic status of individuals affected,'' the EPA says on its website. ``Impacts will likely vary by region, the sensitivity of populations, the extent and length of exposure to climate change impacts, and society's ability to adapt to change.''. The World Health Organization estimates climate change will cause an additional 250,000 deaths per year between 2030 and 2050. ``Most will likely perish from malaria, diarrhea, heat exposure and under-nutrition.''. ``Around the world, variations in climate are affecting, in profoundly diverse ways, the air we breathe, the food we eat, and the water we drink,'' writes Dr. Maria Neira, director of the WHO's public health and environment department. ``We are losing our capacity to sustain human life in good health.''. ``Consider air pollution, the single greatest environmental health risk we face. In 2012 alone, exposure to indoor and outdoor pollutants killed more than 7 million people -- one in eight deaths worldwide. Under-nutrition already accounts for 3 million deaths each year in the world's poorest regions. Rising temperatures and more variable rainfall patters are expected to reduce crop yields, further compromising food security. Floods are increasing in frequency and intensity, creating breeding grounds for disease-carrying insects. Mosquito-borne diseases, like malaria, are particularly sensitive to heat and humidity. What will happen if rising temperatures accelerate the lifecycle of the malaria parasite ?''. ``Children and the elderly will be among the most vulnerable,'' writes Neira. ``Areas with health infrastructure will be least able to cope. Developing countries will be hardest hit. The health gaps we have been trying hard to close may grow even wider.''. Earth's average temperature has risen by 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit over the past century, and is projected to rise an additional 2 degrees over the next hundred years, according to the EPA. ``Small changes in the average temperature of the planet can translate to large and potentially dangerous shifts in climate and weather,'' the agency warns. ``Many places have seen changes in rainfall, resulting in more floods, droughts, or intense rain, as well as more frequent and severe heat waves.''. Still, there exists a sizable group of people who doubt climate change is happening. ``Although climate scientists have been in the news describing this winter as a strong signal that global warming is producing extreme weather, Americans are no more likely today ( 55 % ) than in the past two years to believe the effects of global warming are occurring,'' according to a March Gallup poll. A 2013 TIME magazine article makes the case that medical professionals may be the best messengers for global warming. ``Framing global warming as a public health issue rather than as an environmental or national security one produces the most emotionally compelling response among people, since it focuses on the immediate implications a warmer climate would have on people's lives,'' the article says. ``This strategy also has the benefit of providing a sense of hope that the problems can be addressed and avoided, if action is taken early enough.''. The President said what happened with Los Angeles' air proved that point. ``When the Clean Air Act was passed, not only was there a terrible smog in Los Angeles, it was true in most metropolitan areas across the country,'' Obama said. ``The fact is that air quality has dramatically improved and it's been much cheaper than anybody expected, because technology advanced and people figured out how to do it. As a consequence, the American people are a lot healthier, in addition to being able to, you know, see the mountains in the background because it's not covered in smog.''. ``We know how to do this,'' Obama said. ``We just have to be bold and recognize and trust the kind of innovative spirit that the American people have always displayed.''
( CNN ) Mike Rowe is coming to a river near you. ``Sometimes, you hear about a person who makes you feel good about humanity, but bad about yourself,'' Rowe says. On Thursday's episode of ``Somebody's Got ta Do It,'' Rowe meets up with Chad Pregracke, the founder of Living Lands & Waters, who does just that. Pregracke wants to clean up the nation's rivers one piece of detritus at a time. His quota ? Always ``more.''. Read Mike Rowe's Facebook post on how to break our litter habit. Since he founded the nonprofit in 1998 at the ripe age of 23, Pregracke and more than 87,000 volunteers have collected 8.4 million pounds of trash from U.S. waterways. Those efforts helped him earn the 2013 CNN Hero of the Year Award, along with numerous other honors. ``Wherever you are, no matter if there's a stream, a creek, a lake, whatever, that needs to be cleaned up, you can do it. Just organize it and do it,'' he told CNN's Anderson Cooper after his win. Pregracke also gives Rowe a tour of the 150-foot, solar-powered barge that the Living Lands & Waters staff calls home during lengthy cleanups. The part-home, part-office, part-dumpster has seven bedrooms, two bathrooms, a classroom and a kitchen -- and just happens to be made from a recycled strip club. According to the organization's latest annual report, Pregracke has made it his mission in 2015 to remove 500,000 more pounds of trash. If you'd like to help achieve this goal, visit his website to learn how to help : LivingLandsAndWaters.org / Get-Involved /.
( CNN ) On the surface, the mix-up seems incomprehensible : How can a volunteer sheriff's deputy accidentally fire a handgun instead of a Taser, killing a man ?. That's apparently what happened in Tulsa, Oklahoma, when a 73-year-old reserve deputy, Robert Bates, killed Eric Harris. Bates said he meant to use his stun gun but ended up firing his handgun instead. ``Oh ! I shot him. I'm sorry,'' Bates said in a video of the shooting. But it's happened before. In a well-publicized 2009 case, a Bay Area Rapid Transit police officer fired his gun instead of his Taser, killing 22-year-old Oscar Grant in Oakland, California. The former officer, Johannes Mehserle, testified that he had meant to use his Taser but drew his gun instead. Mehserle was sentenced to two years in prison for involuntary manslaughter but was released early due to good conduct. So how easy -- or hard -- is it to draw and fire a handgun mistakenly instead of a Taser ? Here are some factors to consider :. Law enforcement experts say the gun should be holstered on the officer's dominant side of the body, and the Taser should be placed on the nondominant side. So if an officer is left-handed, the gun should be on the left side. Bates' attorney said his client is left-handed. But the reserve deputy said his gun was holstered on his right side -- his nondominanant side. ``I shoot long guns left handed and handguns right handed,'' Bates said in a written statement to investigators. After Bates announced at the scene he was going to use his Taser, he ``used his nondominant hand, and it was the gun,'' said Clark Brewster, Bates' attorney. ``He said that he saw the laser sight on the shoulder, assumed it was the Taser,'' Brewster said. ``Both the gun and the Taser have a laser sight, and he just made a mistake.''. Brewster also said his client's left hand was holding a pepper gun. In his statement to investigators, Bates said he had grabbed a ``pepper ball launcher'' to try to slow or stop Harris, who was running away. Bates did not say explicitly where the Taser was on his body. But he admitted to grabbing the wrong device and said he was ``startled'' by the recoil of the gun. ``After realizing what had happened I was in a state of shock and disbelief,'' he told investigators. Bates is now charged with second-degree manslaughter. If convicted, he faces up to four years in prison. Deputy who shot Eric Harris turns himself in. Bates was carrying his personal gun, a Smith & Wesson.357 five-shot revolver, and a Model X26 Taser, he said in his statement to investigators. Attorneys representing the Harris family said there are stark differences between the two devices. One held up a small black.357 revolver, followed by a mostly bright yellow Taser that was noticeably larger than the gun. ``There's no way an officer can get this confused with this,'' said one of the attorneys from the law firm of Smolen, Smolen & Roytman. Taser's X26 model comes in different designs. Some are mostly yellow, while others are mostly black with a yellow panel in the middle. But all appear to be larger than Smith & Wesson.357 five-shot revolvers. Sgt. Jim Clark of the Tulsa Police Department -- which is separate from the county sheriff's office for which Bates volunteered -- said Bates was the ``victim'' of something called ``slip and capture.'' That's when a person intends to do one thing but instead does another in a high-stress situation. But a criminal justice expert told CNN the claim amounts to ``junk science.''. ``There's no peer-reviewed articles that would support this.. It's not generally accepted by the scientific community,'' said Phil Stinson, an assistant professor of criminal justice at Bowling Green State University. ``So it's something that in most courts would not be admissible as evidence.''. An attorney for the Harris family said the ``slip and capture'' theory hasn't held up in court. ``The only time slip and capture has ever been used as a defense was in the shooting in Oakland ( of Oscar Grant ),'' the attorney said. And that defense failed. Tasers are built to feel and look different than guns, according to Taser International. Steve Tuttle, vice president for strategic communications at Taser, noted some of those differences to CNN : A gun is heavier. A Taser has a different grip and feel. When you take the safety off on a Taser, an LED control panel lights up. There's more : Tasers can be different colors ( yellow or black ), and the holster is different from a gun's. But in the field, where an officer reacts on instinct, there are other distinctions outside of the product itself that are important, Tuttle said. Taser's training calls for the stun gun to be placed on an officer's nondominant side, as law enforcement experts say. And its training suggests that officers shout aloud, ``Taser ! Taser ! Taser !'' as they prepare to deploy it. These guidelines are designed so that in the moment -- when an officer's muscle memory kicks in -- the body reflexively knows which weapon it is reaching for. It is up to each law enforcement department, however, in how it trains personnel and what regulations it requires as far as placement on the body. The company declined to comment on the Tulsa shooting in particular. The stun guns, or conducted electrical weapons, manufactured by Taser have been used more than 2.7 million times, Tuttle said, and are designed to be used in situations that are not considered life or death. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, Brooke Baldwin, Ed Lavandera and Mariano Castillo contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin signed a bill on Friday that would allow the state to perform executions with nitrogen gas if lethal injection is ruled unconstitutional or becomes unavailable. Nitrogen causes a quick loss of consciousness and then death from lack of oxygen, Fallin's office said in a press release. CNN affiliate KFOR says it's never been used in an execution in the United States. ``The person will become unconscious within eight to 10 seconds and death a few minutes later. In other words, a humane, quick and painless death,'' said Rep. Mike Christian, one of the bill's authors, according to KFOR. Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, told the Washington Post that the same ``painless'' argument had been used to advance the use of lethal injections. ``The hasty manner in which this bill sped into law reflects the same lack of care with which Oklahoma has managed its execution process historically,'' he said. Oklahoma's executions have been put on hold while the U.S. Supreme Court reviews its use of lethal injections. Last year, the state came under scrutiny when it took 43 minutes to kill convicted killer Clayton Lockett. Fallin reaffirmed her support for the death penalty. ``Oklahoma executes murderers whose crimes are especially heinous,'' Fallin said. ``I support that policy, and I believe capital punishment must be performed effectively and without cruelty. The bill I signed today gives the state of Oklahoma another death penalty option that meets that standard.''. The governor's office said the first alternative for execution is lethal injection, followed by nitrogen gas, the electric chair and the firing squad.
( CNN ) There are two paths to practicing medicine in America. There's the traditional, time-tested way, where new doctors graduate from medical school and then pass a series of national exams while training for years as resident physicians. Then there's the approach being forged in Florida and Arizona : getting elected to a state legislature. Lawmakers in those states are too often donning the white coats to orchestrate medical practice. In 2011, Florida enacted the Firearm Owners' Privacy Act, which threatens prosecution and loss of licensure for any physicians who dare ask their patients about gun ownership and gun safety. Guns are a scientifically uncontested health risk. Asking about them is standard practice in pediatrics and psychiatry. I treat brain injuries, and it's part of my job to talk with patients about things that might be unsafe for them, like driving. And handling weapons. Some of those I treat suffered their injuries by bullets, typically fired by family members or themselves. Does anyone really believe I shouldn't talk about gun safety in these cases ? It's a good thing I don't practice in Florida. Florida's gun censorship law was dragged into court soon after the governor signed it, and while a three-judge appeals panel upheld the law last summer, doctors can still ask about guns while the full 11th Circuit Court of Appeals decides whether it will take up the case, a decision that could come down any day, the president of the Florida chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, Dr. Tommy Schechtman, told me. He is a plaintiff in the case. In Arizona, another assault on physician free speech is scheduled to go into effect this summer. Bill 1318 goes a step beyond silencing doctors. It requires them to lie. The bill was originally a hum-drum attempt to block health plans from covering abortion services, a common state and federal strategy. But legislators slid in a last-minute provision mandating that physicians who prescribe the abortion pill RU-486 tell patients the pill is reversible. That's the opinion of a particular San Diego doctor who says this can be done through risky, large doses of progesterone. But the doctor hasn't proven his case, and his regimen is not recommended by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists or the Food and Drug Administration. Any doctor is certainly within his or her rights to review the limited information available about the San Diego regimen and decide whether to discuss it with patients, but actually requiring physicians to make claims most believe to be untrue and unsafe means the legislators are overstepping their bounds and interfering with the patient-doctor relationship. I can not imagine anyone attempting to put words into the mouth of a lawyer privately consulting with a client. Why are physicians putting up with a professional assault the American Bar Association would never permit ?. Dr. Ilana Addis, chairwoman of the Arizona chapter of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, told me the amendment was added shortly before she was scheduled to testify about the bill before the Arizona House. While Planned Parenthood and the ACLU joined her organization in criticizing the provision, the bill passed both chambers and was recently signed by the governor. There's a common relationship shared by these laws, beyond turning doctors into government spokespeople. These laws capitalize on controversial issues to divide and conquer. Physicians don't all share the same opinions on abortion and guns any more than they all vote Republican or Democrat. This is part of the reason the key state physicians' associations aren't taking the lead in battling these laws. The battle is left to the specialties most affected. In Florida, that's the state's chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, since pediatricians are most likely to ask about guns in the home. In Arizona, it's the state chapter of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists carrying the torch for physician free speech. The Florida Medical Association didn't provide me with details about whether it has a lobbying effort against the gun law, and the Arizona Medical Association told me in a statement that ``ArMA's policy is to take no position on abortion.''. Representing physicians as a whole, the state medical associations have the most political clout in statehouses. The Massachusetts Medical Society ( MSS ) tried to utilize that power recently when it decided to dedicate ``Doctor's Day'' to the issue of physician free speech, highlighting the threat posed by Florida's gun law in particular. Members are concerned about the precedent being set. Arkansas enacted a law similar to Arizona just days later. The American Medical Association can do more. It did file a friend-of-the-court brief as part of the Florida legal challenge, but at this writing hasn't weighed in on Arizona. The AMA didn't sign on to a statement released last week by the Coalition to Protect the Patient-Provider Relationship that hits hard on the new abortion laws as an affront to good medical care. Its huge lobbying operations are tied up in Washington, while states are the main battleground over the integrity of medical practice. Now that the AMA has won the age-old ``doc fix'' battle, ending automatic Medicare payment cuts to doctors, perhaps it will consider assigning some of its $ 18 million lobbying team to stand in for lackluster state affiliates who've abdicated their responsibility to vigorously defend the medical profession. We have a Surgeon General now, Vivek Murthy, and he is on a national listening tour while he prepares to announce his areas of policy focus on April 22, Jonathan Beeton, a Health and Human Services spokesman told me. I hope Murthy will see beyond the bluster of abortion and gun politics and zero in on a key issue affecting public health -- free and unfettered communication between patients and doctors.
Kabul, Afghanistan ( CNN ) A suicide bomber on a motorbike blew himself up in front of the Kabul Bank in Jalalabad early Saturday, a local government spokesman said. The ISIS terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attack. The explosion killed at least 33 people and injured more than 100 others, public health spokesman Najibullah Kamawal said. The claim appears to be the first in Afghanistan by ISIS, CNN's Nick Paton Walsh said. It was made by an offshoot called ISIS Wilayat Khorasan. In a statement, the group said the bomber was named Abu Mohammad and he belonged to their ranks. He was targeting government workers collecting their pay at the bank, the terrorists said. He detonated his charge at the peak of rush hour on the first day of the week, when the bank would be expected to be crowded. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid, in a text message to journalists, distanced his group from the attack. ``The explosion in Jalalabad doesn't have anything to do with us and we condemn it,'' he said. ISIS refers to Afghanistan and Pakistan as the province of ``Khorasan.'' In March, CNN reported on ISIS recruiting in Afghanistan. The United Nations condemned the violence. ``The continuing use of suicide attacks in densely populated areas, that are certain to kill and maim large numbers of Afghan civilians, may amount to a war crime,'' said Nicholas Haysom, head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. The United Nations said that in the first three months of the year 655 people were killed and 1,155 were wounded in suicide attacks throughout the country. Fears about ISIS involvement in the region have been growing this year. In February, Mullah Abdul Rauf, a former Taliban commander who had become a recruiter for ISIS in Afghanistan, was killed in a drone strike, according to officials who spoke to CNN. And later that same week, Gen. John Campbell, the top U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that he was concerned about the growth of ISIS in the area. ``You do have some of the Taliban breaking off and claiming allegiance toward ISIS,'' Campbell said, attributing the phenomenon partly to a feeling of disenfranchisement on the parts of some Taliban members -- who, he said, may use ISIS tactics to gain media attention. CNN's Brian Walker, Ben Brumfield and Don Melvin contributed to this report.
( CNN ) French customs officers say they have seized more than 2 tons of cocaine aboard a sailboat that was falsely flying an American flag in the Caribbean. The drugs, whose value is estimated at more than $ 105 million, are the biggest cocaine seizure ever carried out by French authorities, said Michael Lachaux, director of customs operations in Martinique. Officers arrested one Venezuelan and two Spanish citizens who were on board the vessel off the coast of Martinique on Wednesday, Lachaux said in an interview with the radio station France Info on Saturday. Martinique is an overseas department of France. In November, French customs officials seized nearly 250 kilograms ( 550 pounds ) of cocaine on a vessel that was also off the coast of Martinique, according to authorities.
( CNN ) Recently, Robert Kennedy Jr. was in Sacramento, California, to campaign against Senate Bill 227, which makes it harder for parents to opt out of vaccinations. In his remarks at an anti-vaccination movie screening, he decided to compare ``vaccine-induced'' autism to the Holocaust. He said, ``They get the shot, that night they have a fever of a hundred and three, they go to sleep, and three months later their brain is gone,'' Kennedy said. ``This is a holocaust, what this is doing to our country.''. A few days later, he apologized to people who were outraged on behalf of the memory of the Holocaust. To many, it's sacrilege to compare any lesser issue to the horrors perpetrated by the Nazis. In a statement, Kennedy said, ``I want to apologize to all whom I offended by my use of the word to describe the autism epidemic. I employed the term during an impromptu speech as I struggled to find an expression to convey the catastrophic tragedy of autism, which has now destroyed the lives of over 20 million children and shattered their families.''. Robert Kennedy Jr. has apologized for the wrong things. First and foremost, vaccines do not cause autism. The two have nothing to do with each other. Second, he seems to think people with autism are ``gone,'' their lives ``destroyed'' and their families ``shattered.'' Autism is not a death sentence. People with autism are not missing or destroyed. They are everywhere, trying to live their lives in a society that too often demeans them as subhuman, missing or worthless. Kennedy's rhetoric is a problem, even beyond the fraudulent basis for his claims about vaccines. People who believe autism is an environmental disease try to cure kids with quack treatments like giving them bleach-based enemas. Others, believing autism functions as a death sentence, even kill their children. I am worried about the effect of having such a powerful, high-profile member of our political class endorse this demeaning depiction of life with autism. I reached out to a number of autistic activists for comment. Ari Ne'eman, president of the Autistic Self-Advocacy Network, wrote, ``Robert Kennedy Jr, who has engaged with autism only to spread lies, misinformation and dehumanizing rhetoric, has never meaningfully engaged in efforts to improve the lives of autistic Americans. While his father, uncle and many others in the Kennedy-Shriver family championed the rights of people with disabilities, he has instead cast his lot with those who use pseudo-science to question our humanity.''. These are harsh words, but try to see the situation through Ne'eman's eyes. Not only is Kennedy perpetuating a discredited theory, but he's also suggesting that it's better to let your children get preventable and sometimes fatal diseases than risk becoming autistic. The usual response to people like Ne'eman is that he is ``high functioning,'' but what of the burden to families who are struggling to care for less able individuals ?. Henry Frost, an autistic teenager and writer, is devastated by this focus on burden. Last year, he wrote a post to other autistic children : ``Know you are not a burden or trouble for being. You are a person who has every right to be. A family that is saying love but saying you are so hard so wrong for not being as they wanted. The family is wrong. Not You.''. Meanwhile, Amy Sequenzia, an autistic activist and blogger, wrote, ``I am very disabled, have most of the usual not autism but co-occurring conditions, seizures almost every day, but am happy, proud and accomplished, with the human supports I have. That's what is missing. Acceptance.'' As children, Sequenzia and Frost might well have been just the kinds of people labeled as ``gone,'' by Kennedy. Clearly, both are very much present. The solution lies in understanding autism and related conditions as part of human diversity. Michael S. Monje Jr., an autistic writer and editor with Autonomous Press, wrote, ``The neurodiversity movement is a direct counter to this kind of attitude. It is a way for autistic people, as well as anyone else who experiences the world differently due to their neurology, to assert that these natural divergences in human development are just that -- natural. The fact that they are largely unsupported by our society as it is currently configured does not make them in any way less natural, less worthy, or less beautiful than other ways of being in the world.''. I wish Kennedy realized how much his apology demeaned people with intellectual disabilities, even as he defended the sacred status of the Holocaust. There is, though, one story from the Holocaust that he might do well to consider. The first group the Nazis systematically exterminated, in the infamous Action T4, were people with intellectual and other kinds of disabilities. Thousands of children, adolescents and adults were sent to gas chambers, laying the groundwork for the later, larger scale acts of genocide. Underlying Action T4 was the belief that people with disabilities were devoid of value. We fight those beliefs by celebrating neurodiversity, not by fearmongering. Kennedy owes a lot of people another apology.
( CNN ) Iraqi and U.S.-led coalition forces have successfully ousted ISIS from the nation's largest oil refinery, the coalition said Sunday. Iraqi security forces regained full control of the Baiji refinery, the Combined Joint Task Force said. A week ago, ISIS claimed it controlled part of the facility, posting images online that purported to back up the claim. Iraq is working to fortify the facility's defenses, the task force said in a statement. Over the past nine days, the coalition conducted 47 airstrikes in the area, the statement said. Meanwhile, Peshmerga forces -- also with the assistance of coalition strikes -- cleared 84 square kilometers ( 32 square miles ) of ISIS-occupied territory in Iraq on Saturday, the Kurdistan Region Security Council said. The Peshmerga are the national military force of Kurdistan. ``Front-line reporting indicates at least 35 ISIS terrorists were killed during the offensive,'' the council said in a statement. The goal was to push back ISIS and ``diminish its ability to threaten the security of Kirkuk province,'' the statement said. ``This success follows an offensive south and west of Kirkuk'' last month in which 100 square kilometers ( 39 square miles ) of terrain was cleared, the council said.
( CNN ) A couple in their 20s, who led a youth ministry, and their baby boy were driving underneath a highway overpass in Bonney Lake, a Seattle suburb, when other motorists heard the crackle of a pending collapse. Concrete from a construction project crashed onto the family's car, killing Josh and Vanessa Ellis and their 8-month-old son, Hudson, authorities said. ``The damage was so severe it was impossible to tell how many victims were in the vehicle. The only thing we had was we could tell there was one victim,'' said Officer Todd Green of Bonney Lake Police Department, according to CNN affiliate KOMO. It took nine hours Monday for crews to remove enough debris to discover the death toll on Angeline Road underneath State Route 410, authorities said. Authorities continued their investigation Tuesday, but initial findings were that there was an ongoing construction project on the highway and a side jersey barrier ``came loose and fell onto the roadway,'' Green told the station. ``When it fell off the overpass, it landed square on the roof of the vehicle,'' Green added. Josh and Vanessa Ellis were youth pastors at the EastPointe Foursquare Church in Puyallup, near Bonney Lake, the church said. The couple earlier wrote a short autobiography on the church website : ``We love to laugh. We are passionate about seeing young people discover the love and grace that Jesus abundantly pours out on them. ``We get really excited about good coffee, quality time with friends and Seattle welcoming an NBA basketball team back to our city,'' the couple wrote. ``We love drive-in movies, frozen yogurt, dates to IKEA and trips to the beach.''. Lead Pastor James Ludlow said his church was reeling. ``We are stunned ! Shocked ! Wounded, broken and dismayed. But we know one thing for sure.. they are in glory in the loving arms of our King Jesus !'' Ludlow said on the church's Facebook page. Motorist Dawn Nelson was driving behind the Ellis' vehicle. ``I was just a second or two behind him,'' Nelson told KOMO. ``I could hear the three crunch sounds and then it just came down.''. Neighbors recounted a violent collapse. ``I thought a semi had come down the guardrail here in front,'' neighbor Katie Vance told the station. She felt the crash inside her home. ``It was a metal sound and a very heavy sound.. it was through your feet - like a guttural. It shook the whole house,'' she told the affiliate. CNN's Amanda Watts contributed to this story.
Tokyo ( CNN ) A second robotic probe sent into the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant has captured images of a strange green glow. Tokyo Electric Power Company ( TEPCO ) deployed the second remote-controlled robot last week after the first one broke down. The robot detected lower radiation levels and temperature than expected, an indicator that cooling systems were working effectively, according to a statement released by TEPCO. ``It is a great step forward towards the decommissioning work as we can earn necessary data for the next investigation,'' said Akira Ono, the chief of Fukushima Daiichi plant. TEPCO said the yellow seen on the images seemed to suggest a discoloration of the grating, though the cause was unknown. It said the green glow could not be seen when filmed from other angles. The shape-shifting robots were sent in to assess the damage in one of the reactors that suffered a meltdown after a devastating earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. TEPCO says the site's still too dangerous for workers to enter. The first robot, which was sent in on April 10, stalled after moving about 10 meters, according to a statement released by TEPCO. A report and footage from the robot shows that a fallen object had blocked its path and left it stranded. TEPCO decided to cut off the cable connected to the device on April 12 as it had already collected data on radiation levels in 14 of the 18 targeted locations, completing around two-thirds of the originally planned route. The second robot was sent in on April 15 and collected data from all 11 points, as scheduled. Four years after the devastating nuclear crisis, the radiation levels inside the three damaged reactors are still extremely high and remain unsafe for people to enter. Decommissioning work is estimated to cost $ 50 billion and will take years to complete. TEPCO called the robotic probe an ``unprecedented'' experiment. CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki and Junko Ogura reported from Tokyo, Japan and Naomi Ng wrote from Hong Kong.
( CNN ) The American Pharmacists Association is discouraging its members from participating in executions. On Monday, the group voted at its annual meeting to adopt a ban as an official policy, stating that ``such activities are fundamentally contrary to the role of pharmacists as healthcare providers.''. This bolsters the association's previous positions to oppose the use of the term ``drug'' for chemicals used in lethal injection and to oppose laws that require or prohibit pharmacists from participation in lethal injection cases. The group acted this week because of increased public attention on lethal injection, said Michelle Spinnler, spokeswoman for the American Pharmacists Association. That spotlight includes a January Supreme Court decision to stay the execution for three death row inmates in Oklahoma. This was prompted by Clayton Lockett's execution by lethal injection nearly one year ago in which he writhed on a gurney for 43 minutes before he died from a heart attack. In Georgia last month, the execution of female death row inmate Kelly Renee Gissendaner was postponed as a precaution when the execution team checked the medications and discovered they looked cloudy. Thirty-two sates allow capital punishment, and lethal injection is still the most common method. Last month, Utah Gov. Gary R. Herbert signed a law reinstating firing squads as a method of execution in cases in which lethal injection medications are not available. Of the eight inmates currently on death row in Utah, three opted for the new choice of death by firing squad. Pentobarbital is the preferred drug used for lethal injection. In Texas, the department of criminal justice told CNN in March they are running out of their supply. In July 2011, Lundbeck Inc., the manufacturer of pentobarbital, decided to no longer provide the drug to prisons for use in capital punishment. The companies that manufacture the products traditionally used in executions almost unilaterally decided to stop selling to institutions that used the products for that purpose, so states then turned to compounded preparations, Spinnler said. ``Pharmacists should not be involved in preparation of these products or involved in executions in any other way.'' she says. The new declaration by the American Pharmacists Association aligns with positions held by other professional medical organizations such as the American Medical Association, the American Nurses Association and the American Board of Anesthesiology.
Catania, Italy ( CNN ) The boat that sank in the Mediterranean over the weekend with hundreds of migrants on board may have capsized after being touched or swamped by a cargo ship that came to its aid, a U.N. official said. Carlotta Asami, a spokeswoman for the United Nations' refugee agency, made the comments to CNN early Tuesday after she and two of her colleagues had spoken to multiple survivors from the disaster who arrived in Catania, Italy. ``They say that there was a point in which they were very close and probably what happened is that, you know, a big ship creating a big wave -- they were approaching in a very strong manner and they lost balance,'' Asami said. The account she offered differs from that provided by Italian authorities on Sunday. They said that as the cargo ship King Jacob approached late Saturday, migrants on the smaller boat moved to one side, hoping to be saved, and caused the vessel to capsize. Mark Clark -- a communications executive representing OSM Maritime Group, the company that manages the King Jacob -- denied that the cargo ship caused the migrant boat to capsize. He said he also believed that people on the migrant boat rushed to one side, causing many to fall off. The cargo ship was going very slowly as it approached, hardly making any waves, Clark told CNN. It deployed rescue boats, a gangway, nets and life rings, he said. The conflicting accounts of the chaotic events highlight the challenges faced by commercial vessels that are often called upon to help in the escalating migrant boat crisis in the Mediterranean. Asami said the survivors whom she and her colleagues spoke to were ``consistent'' in what they were saying. She said their accounts made it ``credible to think'' that between 800 and 850 people were on board the boat that capsized roughly 110 kilometers ( 70 miles ) north of Libya. Previous estimates had put the number of people aboard anywhere between 700 and 950. Italian authorities, who have been coordinating the rescue effort, say only 28 survivors were rescued and 24 bodies have been recovered. The King Jacob, whose crew members are all from the Philippines, saved 22 of the survivors, according to Clark. The cause of the shipwreck is part of Italian authorities' investigation, said Giovanni Salvi, Catania's public prosecutor. Investigators want to study the King Jacob's voyage data recorder and find the wreck of the sunken boat, he told a news conference Monday. The likely toll makes the sinking the deadliest known disaster involving migrants crossing the Mediterranean from North Africa. Many of the victims are feared to be still trapped inside the sunken boat. Asami said the survivors told her and her colleagues that they were all on the highest part of the overcrowded boat, while many people were down in the lowest area. Italian authorities said Sunday that an unidentified Bangladeshi survivor had told them that the smugglers had locked many people inside the lower levels of the vessel. Two of the survivors were arrested on suspicion of human trafficking upon arriving in Sicily on Monday, according to Italian police officer Maria Guia Federico. They were the boat's Tunisian captain and a Syrian crew member, said Salvi, the Catania prosecutor. Italian police identified the two suspects through questioning survivors aboard the coast guard vessel that brought them to Catania, Salvi said, according to Italian media. The sinking appears to be the worst among an intensifying spate of migrant boat disasters in the Mediterranean to which European governments are struggling to respond. Vast numbers of people fleeing violence and poverty have been setting out on the risky journey across the Mediterranean to southern Europe for years, but authorities have reported a sharp increase this month in the numbers in need of rescue. The number of deaths has also skyrocketed. The International Organization for Migration said Monday that more than 1,100 people were estimated to have drowned in the waters between Libya and Italy just in the past week. It reported Monday that three other migrant boats could be in distress in international waters. Shipping companies recently warned that European governments are putting what they say is an unfair burden on their vessels to come to the aid of migrant boats in trouble. ``We believe it is unacceptable that the international community is increasingly relying on merchant ships and seafarers to undertake more and more large-scale rescues, with single ships having to rescue as many 500 people at a time,'' the European Community Shipowners Associations said in a letter to EU leaders last month. ``Commercial ships are not equipped to undertake such large-scale rescues, which also create serious risks to the safety, health and welfare of ships' crews who should not be expected to deal which such situations,'' the letter said. Commercial ships rescued more than 40,000 people in the Mediterranean last year, according to the International Organization for Migration. That's higher than the more than 35,000 people saved by the Italian Coast Guard but lower than the 80,000 rescued by the Italian Navy, which was running a special program, Mare Nostrum, for most of the year. European Union ministers met Monday in Luxembourg and proposed a 10-point plan to help address the crisis. ``We are not yet working on numbers, but what we have agreed on today is, for sure, the need to increase significantly the resources at sea, and the level of the operation, doing more search and rescue and doing it more together,'' said Federica Mogherini, the EU high representative for foreign affairs and security police. Mogherini told CNN that the European Union must fight human traffickers, strengthen Europeans' duty to save lives at sea and share responsibility when it comes to the resettlement and relocation of refugees. ``We need to fight the organizations that are trafficking and smuggling people, so that we can prevent desperate people from leaving in desperate conditions,'' Mogherini said. ``My pain is that it was a reaction coming too late after so many people died.''. But some groups said European officials were offering too little too late. ``What we needed from EU foreign ministers today was life-saving action, but they dithered,'' said Justin Forsyth, the chief executive of Save The Children. ``With each day we delay we lose more innocent lives and Europe slips further into an immoral abyss,'' Forsyth said in a statement. ``Right now, people desperately seeking a better life are drowning in politics.''. CNN's Karl Penhaul reported from Catania, and Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Hada Messia, Isa Soares and Atika Shubert contributed to this report.
Moscow ( CNN ) A Russian TV channel aired Hillary Clinton's first campaign video with a rating stamp that means it's for mature audiences, because of fears it might run afoul of the country's anti-gay propaganda law. A clip of the video, which features a gay couple holding hands, got the 18 + rating from the independent TV Rain channel in Russia on Monday. The channel told CNN that it didn't want to break the controversial law, which bans ``propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations around minors'' and bars public discussion of gay rights and relationships within earshot of children. ``There are no legal precedents for this law, so we just don't know what comes under this law and ( what ) doesn't,'' a TV Rain spokesperson told CNN. ``Therefore, fearing to break the law -- especially given the high attention to TV Rain from the supervising authorities -- we decided to put a marker ( on the video ).''. Clinton's video was released over the weekend to announce the start of her 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. It features about five seconds of two men holding hands. One of the men says, ``I'm getting married this summer to someone I really care about.''. The former senator and first lady first declared her support for same-sex marriage in early 2013, saying that ``gay rights are human rights, and human rights are gay rights.''. Russia's controversial law caused an international outcry after it was passed by the Russian Parliament and signed by President Vladimir Putin in July 2013. Human Rights Watch described the anti-gay propaganda law as ``a profoundly discriminatory and dangerous bill that is bound to worsen homophobia in Russia.''. Rights campaigners called for a boycott of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, and a number of bars around the world stopped serving Russian vodka in protest. U.S. President Barack Obama -- Clinton's former boss -- said at the time that he found the legislation offensive. ``I have no patience for countries that try to treat gays or lesbians or transgendered persons in ways that intimidate them or harmful to them,'' Obama told Jay Leno in 2013. Putin defended the law, noting that unlike other countries, Russia decriminalized homosexual relationships ( in 1993 ). ``We don't outlaw anything and don't nab anyone,'' he said before the 2014 Games. ``That's why you can feel safe and free here,'' he added, ``but please leave our children in peace.''. The rights group ILGA-Europe said in a May 2014 report that Russia was the worst place in Europe ( out of 49 countries ) for LGBTI people to live. READ MORE : Social media react to Hillary Clinton logo.
Mogadishu, Somalia ( CNN ) A car bomb exploded at a restaurant near the presidential palace in the heart of Somalia's capital Tuesday, killing at least 10 people, including a woman and a boy, police said. Somalia-based Islamist militant group Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack. Group spokesman Sheikh Abdiaziz Musab, speaking to pro-Al-Shabaab outlet Andalus radio, said the blast targeted and killed several Somali intelligence agents. Somali police spokesman Qasim Mohamed Roble told reporters that the car bomb killed no government official or soldier. Among the dead, he said, was a boy who shined shoes. The area is not a new target for Al-Shabaab, which has battled Somalia's government for years with the goal of establishing a fundamentalist Islamic state. The restaurant is across the street from the Central Hotel, where Al-Shabaab killed at least 15 people in a bombing and gun attack in February. The streets outside the restaurant were ``littered with debris and human body parts'' after Tuesday's explosion, witness Mohamed Ali said. The blast damaged nearby buildings and vehicles at a parking lot, according to Ali. Ambulances took wounded people to a nearby hospital for treatment. Tuesday's bombing is at least the third high-profile attack near or at a Mogadishu hotel since February. On February 20, militants attacked the Central Hotel, blowing up a car bomb outside before shooting people and detonating another bomb inside. Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack. More than a month later, on March 27, gunmen detonated explosives and shot people at a different Mogadishu hotel -- the Makka Al Mukarama -- leaving at least 20 people dead. The attack stretched into the next day before security personnel killed all the assailants. Al-Shabaab also said it was responsible for the Makka Al Mukarama attack, claiming it targeted the hotel because its guests were spies and government officials. Among those killed in the March 27 assault was Yusuf Mohamed Ismail Bari-Bari, Somalia's permanent representative to the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, the Somali government said. Journalist Omar Nor reported from Mogadishu. CNN's Jason Hanna wrote in Atlanta.
London ( CNN ) Ever written yourself a note, stuffed it in your pocket and headed out into the world only to discover that, somewhere along your journey, the piece of paper has disappeared ?. If you live in the UK, there's a small chance that note has found its way into the hands of 23-year-old Daisy Bentley. For the past six years, the London-based artist has scoured the streets of cities and towns looking for those odd bits of paper that flutter to the ground when their owners aren't looking. Her quest has uncovered a fascinating, if idiosyncratic, collection of shopping lists, reminders, requests, love notes and motivational musings, all poignant pieces of others' lives. And now a gallery in London has put a selection on display for the public. ``I wasn't intending to start a collection,'' she told CNN. ``I always naturally collected things -- as many artists do -- and it got to the point that I was picking up every one I saw. Now I can barely walk down a street without picking up a scrap of paper.''. Bentley began collecting them six years ago after a note caught her eye one rainy night on a walk in her home town of Norwich, England. It's something she confesses has been a lifelong love -- keepsakes ranging from her mother's cutlery to her own dead goldfish have ended up carefully preserved in her collection for posterity. The notes project, she says, is a culmination of keeping her eyes on the sidewalk and spotting the little things that most people wouldn't notice as they walked down the street. ``I get very odd looks from strangers,'' she admits, ``but since I've made friends and families aware of the project, they get very excited when I find one while out with them.''. And while some dismiss such behavior as hoarding, Bentley feels it is part of human nature to hold on to items, no matter how small or insignificant they may seem. ``Humans want to collect and show to others,'' she says. ``They want to share and learn from the things they have found.''. She says her collecting has led to interesting anthropological insights into the human condition. One of her favorite observations is the evolution of handwriting over the past few decades, from the beautiful copperplate penmanship of the'70s to modern teen girl love notes with hearts dotting i's and multiple exclamation marks. More recently, the note collection has led to an exhibition at Stour Space gallery in London's Hackney Wick, where Bentley works as a shop and studio manager. It showcases a small part of her 1,500-strong collection. The decision to display the notes came in part from a desire to put them back into the public space. ``I always wanted to showcase them, to see what people's reactions were and if anyone would come forward,'' she said. So far two note owners -- one a colleague from the gallery and one an employee from a pub whose beer coasters she had found on her quest -- have revealed themselves as owners of notes. Bentley gave them framed prints as a thank you. And while some may find the notion of handwritten notes quaint, as social media and smartphones begin to replace handwriting, Bentley says she finds the note collection an interesting way for an artist to explore people's lives. ``Technology is useful, but sometimes the simplest ways are still the best,'' she said. ``I still usually draw a map rather than relying on technology to get to a place -- and many people are just the same.''
( CNN ) On October 31, 2014, the Italian government announced the end of ``Mare Nostrum'' -- a naval mission that rescued would-be migrants in peril as they tried to cross the Mediterranean to seek security and a new life in Europe. In the operation's year-long existence, the Italian Navy and Coastguard had rescued an estimated 100,000 people. But it proved expensive and politically contentious, and Europe was not prepared to help Italy shoulder the burden of the crisis. Without European support, the Italian government cut back the naval assets dedicated to rescuing migrants. Mare Nostrum, which had been launched after some 600 people died when two migrant ships sank in 2013, was replaced by the more modest ``Operation Triton,'' under the auspices of the European Union's border agency, Frontex. Triton has about one-third of the funding of Mare Nostrum, with just six ships and patrol boats, two planes and one helicopter. It was designed as a policing rather than a humanitarian mission. At its inception, Klaus Rosler, operations director for Frontex, said ``Triton is not a replacement for Mare Nostrum.'' Nor was Frontex ``a coordinating body for search and rescue operations.''. Six months later, the argument about how to handle unprecedented numbers of desperate people heading for Europe continues unabated. Contributors to Triton include Portugal, the Netherlands, Finland and Iceland. Britain -- for example -- is not. It argues that search and rescue operations in international waters are ``an unintended `pull factor,' encouraging more migrants to attempt the dangerous sea crossing and thereby leading to more tragic and unnecessary deaths.''. It's perhaps no coincidence that immigration is a hot-button issue in Britain, with the UK Independence Party attacking the Conservative-led coalition government for being soft on allowing foreigners into the country. Similarly, the opposition Northern League in Italy opposed Mare Nostrum, accusing it of enticing migrants. If the first few months of this year are any guide, demand has not diminished even if the prospect of being rescued has. People from Syria, Mali and Eritrea are among the tens of thousands trying to escape repression, violence and abject poverty. Despite the danger, the great majority head first for Libya, where the collapse of authority allows smuggling operations to go unhindered. Italy -- the European state whose territory is closest to Libya -- has borne the brunt of the task of picking up, sheltering and providing food and medical help to the illegal migrants. In 2014, 170,000 migrants arrived in Italy by sea. Italian ships have picked up about 11,000 migrants in the past week alone. The islands of Sicily and of Lampedusa ( which is closer to Tunisia than to mainland Italy ) see an almost daily influx of human misery. And at this time of year, there is a surge in the illegal trafficking as the weather and sea conditions improve. Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi has said the Mediterranean is a sea, not a cemetery. On Sunday, in the wake of the latest disaster, he complained that Italy had been coping with the crisis in ``near solitude, sometimes assisted by some other international presence.''. Italy has also led calls for an international peacekeeping issue to help restore stability in Libya, not least in an effort to tackle the flow of migrants, many of whom set out from around Misrata and other ports in the west of the country. According to some human rights groups, the danger to migrants on the high seas has been accentuated by merchant ships turning a blind eye to boats in distress -- despite a maritime obligation to come to the aid of vessels in peril. After the latest sinking, the European Commission called an urgent meeting of foreign and interior ministers, saying that ``the reality is stark and our actions must therefore be bold. These are human lives at stake, and the European Union as a whole has a moral and humanitarian obligation to act.''. EU Foreign Policy chief Federica Mogherini, who is Italian, said Sunday : ``We need to save human lives all together, as all together we need to protect our borders and to fight the trafficking of human beings.'' The task could not be ``left only to the southern countries,'' she insisted. But bold action is rarely a hallmark of the EU. The recently installed head of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Junker, has set out his priorities -- but they are yet to be acted upon. Junker said the current budget of Frontex - some 90 million euros ( $ 97 million ) - was ``a good start but does not yet equal the task of protecting Europe's common borders.''. That money has to cover all Frontex's roles -- and it's not only the Italian coast that is being targeted by migrants. Further east, thousands of migrants are trying to reach Greece by land and sea. According to the UN's refugee agency, 219,000 refugees and migrants crossed the Mediterranean last year. Junker has also argued for greater assistance to the European Asylum Support Office, which is based in Malta, arguing for ``more thorough risk assessments to spot problem areas before they become overloaded.''. Most controversially, Junker is proposing Europe adopt a common asylum system, saying that ``one and the same applicant for asylum can have a 70-75 % chance of being granted asylum in one country of the European Union and less than 1 %, with the same reasons, in another country.''. But progress toward a Europe-wide approach on migration is painfully slow. The European Commission plans to publish a policy document next month, but member states are in no hurry to grapple with such a politically explosive and costly subject. In the meantime, the argument in European meetings is likely to focus on priorities, with some ( the UK and Germany ) likely to argue that more resources must be devoted to cracking down on the lucrative people-smuggling racket. ``We must target the traffickers who are responsible for so many people dying at sea and prevent their innocent victims from being tricked or forced into making these perilous journeys,'' said British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond Sunday. Others, including Italy, Greece, Spain and France, are expected to seek more concerted action in handling and funding the influx. But the hundreds of migrants being herded onto barely seaworthy boats from Libyan beaches will be oblivious to the debate. READ MORE : Migrant deaths at sea - what is Europe going to do?READ MORE : Why migrants are risking their lives to reach ItalyREAD MORE :' I enter Europe or I die' - desperate migrants rescuedREAD MORE : How do illegal immigrants get into Europe ?
( CNN ) Five years after the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded and unleashed the largest marine oil spill in the nation's history, we are still experiencing -- yet only beginning to truly understand -- its profound environmental and economic repercussions. The immediate aftermath of the oil spill has been well documented, with declines in tourism and the seafood industry, as well as the significant destruction of wildlife in the region. Since then, the amount of oil in the area has dissipated and communities have started to show signs of recovery. In fact, reports indicate that the Gulf of Mexico's seafood industry, which supplies the United States with roughly 40 % of its seafood, is finally starting to rebound. However, profound challenges remain, in part because so many questions about the long-term consequences remain unanswered. To this day, it's still unclear where all of the oil went, exactly how much remains or whether the reappearance of wildlife is a result of adaptation or a signal that the crisis is truly abating. One of the populations that can provide insight into these questions is the Gulf crab. Crabs play an important role in the region : Roughly 60 million pounds were fished in the Gulf in 2012, earning tens of millions in revenue. Yet in the aftermath of the spill, changes to crustacean communities in the area were quite apparent to the naked eye. Researchers documented substantial differences in appearance, and deformities in crabs that were affected by the spill including lesions so numerous they ate through the joints, forcing limbs to fall off. These traits have affected not only the crabs' market value but also likely their ability to survive. While these changes in outward appearance have dissipated in the short-term, the health of these crabs could still be precarious. I have been working with colleagues at Florida International University and University of Louisiana at Lafayette to better understand what might be happening biologically inside the crab when it is exposed to oil and the dispersant used to respond to the spill. Using the power of genomics and computational biology, we analyzed the genes of flat back mud crabs that were exposed to oil from the Macondo Prospect where the Deepwater Horizon rig was drilling when it exploded or to a combination of oil and dispersant in the lab. By studying gene expression, the process that turns information from a gene into a product that functions within a cell, we searched for indicators that might signal exposure to oil and, based on the types of changes we might see, clues as to how the crabs respond. Although we are still in the early stages of our research, we are seeing significant differences in gene expression connected to exposure -- meaning the crabs are turning some genes on or off in response to oil and dispersant. We are still working to determine whether these changes impact their ability to survive and reproduce. It's not just Gulf crabs that are experiencing changes. Research on different species and other aspects of the regional environment is starting to show that there could be long-term effects resulting from the oil spill and the response to the spill. This not only has consequences for the Gulf area, where oil drilling continues, but also for communities along the Atlantic Coast, where the Obama administration has recently announced a plan to open unprecedented oil and natural gas exploration. ( BP's vice president of communications, Geoff Morrell, told CNN that wildlife species in the Gulf have ``bounced back and ``there is no data that suggests there are any long-term population-level impacts to any species.'' ). With the virtual certainty of more spills, we need a lot more information on the consequences of these disasters and how we can combat them effectively and efficiently. The U.S. Department of the Interior and the Environmental Protection Agency are making some progress. In coming months, they are releasing changes to regulations and response plans based on the early lessons learned from the Deepwater Horizon spill. But government agencies can not just rely on the short-term data to determine the best response for the next oil spill crisis. Instead, the government and oil companies should work together to support ongoing, long-term ecological research so that we have a better grasp of what ``normal'' looks like and what factors are important in maintaining those conditions even after a disastrous oil spill. Only then will we truly understand the impact of offshore drilling and the best ways to respond to crises to protect our most important natural resources.
( CNN ) North Korea accused Mexico of illegally holding one of its cargo ships Wednesday and demanded the release of the vessel and crew. The ship, the Mu Du Bong, was detained after it ran aground off the coast of Mexico in July. Mexico defended the move Wednesday, saying it followed proper protocol because the company that owns the ship, North Korea's Ocean Maritime Management company, has skirted United Nations sanctions. ``Because the company has avoided the sanctions imposed by the U.N. Security Council, the Mexican government is acting on the basis of its international obligations as a responsible U.N. member state,'' the Permanent Mission of Mexico to the United Nations said. The Security Council blacklisted Ocean Maritime Management in July, saying it ``played a key role in arranging the shipment of concealed arms and related materiel'' on another ship, the Chong Chon Gang, which was detained by Panama in 2013. But An Myong Hun, North Korea's deputy ambassador to the United Nations, said there was no reason to hold the Mu Du Bong and accused Mexico of violating the crew members' human rights by keeping them from their families. ``Mu Du Bong is a peaceful, merchant ship and it has not shipped any items prohibited by international laws or regulations,'' An told reporters at the United Nations headquarters Wednesday. ``And we have already paid full compensation to Mexican authorities according to its domestic laws.''. According to Mexico's U.N. mission, the 33 North Korean nationals who make up the vessel's crew are free, staying at a hotel in the port city of Tuxpan and regularly visiting the ship to check on it. They will soon be sent back to North Korea with help from the country's embassy, Mexican authorities said. In the case of the Chong Chon Gang, Panamanian authorities found it was carrying undeclared weaponry from Cuba -- including MiG fighter jets, anti-aircraft systems and explosives -- buried under thousands of bags of sugar. Panama seized the cargo and held onto the ship and its crew for months. North Korea eventually agreed to pay a fine of $ 666,666 for the vessel's release. CNN's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.
Boston ( CNN ) Now the real Boston Marathon trial can begin. A federal jury's decision to convict Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of 30 charges related to the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings was the most anticlimactic of anticlimaxes. The 21-year-old's lawyers admitted from the beginning that their client had participated in the horrific terrorist attack, which both scarred and strengthened this city. The outcome of this first phase may have been preordained, but nearly two years after the bombing, the trial has held Boston and the region in thrall -- more so than I might have imagined. The case regularly lands on the front pages of our two daily newspapers, the Globe and the Herald, and often leads the local television newscasts. The Twitter feeds of reporters covering the trial are avidly followed. We haven't learned much new, although harrowing details about the deaths of the Tsarnaev brothers' four victims have come out. More than anything, many people find something cathartic in seeing the seemingly insolent, unrepentant Tsarnaev being brought to justice. The only issue to be decided is whether Tsarnaev should be executed. Which is why the second phase of his trial is the one that really matters. Was Tsarnaev so thoroughly under the sway of his radicalized older brother, Tamerlan, that he should be spared lethal injection ? Or had this seemingly typical teenager transformed himself into a hardened jihadist who obsessed over al Qaeda propaganda such as the article ``Make a bomb in the kitchen of your mom'' ?. What kind of justice should Tsarnaev receive ? There is no death penalty in Massachusetts, and in September 2013, according to a Globe poll, 57 % of respondents supported life in prison for Tsarnaev ; just 33 % said he should be executed. By moving the case into federal court, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder made it likely that Tsarnaev would receive the death penalty. Keep in mind that no members of the jury were deemed eligible to serve unless they stated beforehand that they were willing to consider putting Tsarnaev to death. But imagine a different scenario in which Tsarnaev had been allowed to plead guilty in return for a life sentence. He would have been denied the public stage he has been granted ; although he has not testified ( so far ), his terrorist actions have been replayed over and over again for people to see the world over. The 2015 Boston Marathon will take place in less than two weeks, on Monday, April 20. Thousands of runners will clog the 26.2-mile route, and tens of thousands will cheer them on -- as they did last year, proving to the world that we will not be intimidated. And Tsarnaev's lawyers will still be fighting for their client's life. It is a natural if disturbing reaction to events like this that it's easier to remember the names of the perpetrators than of their victims. But Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is a loser and a nobody. He should be allowed to fade away into the obscurity of a maximum-security prison cell. The people who deserve to be remembered are those he and his brother killed on Marathon Day -- Martin Richard, Krystle Campbell and Lingzi Lu -- and Sean Collier, the MIT police officer they executed in cold blood. It is they who should live on in our collective memories.
( CNN ) An American teenager who helped her boyfriend stuff her mother's lifeless body into a suitcase at an upmarket hotel in Bali has been sentenced to 10 years in prison. Heather Mack, 19, who gave birth to her own daughter just weeks ago, was found guilty with her 21-year-old boyfriend, Tommy Schaefer, of killing Sheila von Wiese-Mack on the Indonesian island last August. Schaefer was sentenced to 18 years in prison for battering von Wiese-Mack to death in room 317 of the St. Regis Bali Resort. Schaefer had claimed he killed his girlfriend's mother in self-defense after a violent argument erupted over the young couple's relationship. The beaten body of von Wiese-Mack was found in a large silver suitcase that the couple had loaded in a waiting taxi outside the resort. They told the driver they'd be back soon, but after a lengthy wait he alerted hotel staff who inspected the bag, noticed blood and called police. The lovers were arrested after being found the following morning at another hotel about 15 kilometers ( nine miles ) away. Inside the bag, von Wiese-Mack's body had been wrapped in hotel bedding. A forensic examination determined that she had died from a blunt force to the face that fractured her facial bones and caused her to suffocate. Described as a Chicago socialite, von Wiese-Mack was reported to have a troubled relationship with her teenage daughter. Schaefer denied that the murder was premeditated. He told the court that he acted in self-defense when his girlfriend's mother started strangling him during an argument in the Bali hotel room. ``She squeezed my neck for about 20 to 30 seconds. I couldn't breathe. I had blood going to my head and my eyes were so watery,'' Schaefer told the court. He said he reached for a nearby bowl ``before she could.'' ``I couldn't see for a moment because my eyes were so watery and I was distraught, I was in a state of mind, I had no idea what was happening. I was almost about to black out. And I grabbed it and I started swinging,'' he told the court. Mack told the court her mother had threatened to kill the couple's unborn baby, according to local media. The prosecutor alleged that the two planned the murder, because Mack's mother disapproved of their relationship. After being detained by police, the couple initially claimed they'd been taken captive at the resort by an armed gang, whose members killed Heather's mother, and from whom they managed to escape. The two were tried separately, though both trials were heard by the same court, with the same prosecutors. Prosecutors had sought a prison sentence of 18 years for Schaefer and 15 years for Mack. Under Indonesian law, Mack will be allowed to keep her baby with her in prison for two years, after which she can nominate who should take custody. Journalists Fairuz Husaini and Ragil Lestari and CNN's Kathy Quiano contributed to this report.
( CNN ) An Asiana Airlines plane overran a runway while landing at Japan's Hiroshima Airport on Tuesday evening, prompting the airport to temporarily close, the Japanese transportation ministry said. Twenty-three people had minor injuries after Flight 162 landed at 8:05 p.m., according to fire department and ministry sources. There were 73 passengers and eight crew members -- including five cabin attendants, two pilots and a maintenance official -- aboard when the flight took off from South Korea's Incheon International Airport at 6:34 p.m. local time, Asiana said in a statement late Tuesday. Authorities are investigating initial reports that the Airbus A320 may have hit an object on the runway during landing, causing damage to the rear of its body and the cover of the engine on the left wing, the ministry said. Video of the scene showed the aircraft's body turned around, with its nose pointing in the direction that the plane had come from. Hiroshima Airport closed because of the incident Tuesday night while fire department officials worked at the scene. Airbus, the plane's manufacturer, is aware of the incident and is working to gather more information, Airbus regional media relations manager Marie Caujolle said.
( CNN ) Madonna has a thing for making out with fellow performers on stage. First it was Britney and Christina, and now rapper Drake has been on the receiving end of a little lip action from Madge. While the blondes had fun with it, Drake appeared less than enthused after Madonna's prolonged smooch onstage at the Coachella music festival in California on Sunday. In an update Monday from ``champagnepapi'' himself on Instagram, the rapper clarified his reaction : ``Don't misinterpret my shock !! I got to make out with the queen Madonna and I feel 100 about that forever. Thank you @Madonna.''. After the kiss, though, he seemed dazed. ``Oh, s ***. What the f *** just happened ?'' he asked moments later from the stage. It all went down after Drake performed ``Madonna,'' a song named for the megastar off his new mixtape ``If You're Reading This It's Too Late,'' according to Billboard. He welcomed Madonna onstage as a special guest to perform a few songs. While wrapping up ``Human Nature,'' the Material Girl, 56, planted one on the seated Drake, 28, who began to flail his arms after a while in an apparent attempt to escape. His sour face after the encounter led many to speculate that he didn't enjoy the kiss. Of course, Drake and Madonna's little makeout sesh got the web talking and meme-ing :. ``So @Drake proves that kissing @Madonna is about as ghastly as I always imagined it would be,'' wrote former CNN personality Piers Morgan. ``Grandma : give Nana some suga. Drake : no no noooooo !!!'' wrote another Tweeter.
Sao Paulo, Brazil ( CNN ) Brazilian supermodel Gisele Bundchen sashayed down the catwalk at Sao Paulo Fashion Week on Wednesday night in an emotional farewell to the runway. Bundchen announced over the weekend that she would be retiring from the catwalk, though not the fashion industry. The 34-year-old, who is married to New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and has two children, has said she wants to spend more time with her family. On Wednesday night, Brady had a front-row seat at what was hailed as a historic moment in Brazil's fashion world. Bundchen wrote about her fashion career on her Instagram account : ``I am grateful that at 14, I was given the opportunity to start this journey. Today after 20 years in the industry, it is a privilege to be doing my last fashion show by choice and yet still be working in other facets of the business.''
( CNN ) A look at Oklahoma City, 20 years later. A fly-by of Pluto, 4 billion miles away. And the struggle to save the last male northern white rhino in the world. These are your best videos of the week :. On April 19, 1995, the Alfred R. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, was bombed by two disaffected young Americans. One hundred sixty-eight people died in the terrorist attack, including 19 children. As the 20th anniversary of the tragedy approaches, CNN captured video of the memorial that stands on the site today. The video is at the top of this story. The use of marijuana as a medicinal treatment actually dates back millennia, to at least 2730 B.C. CNN's Sanjay Gupta looks at the history of the herb in medicine -- including its prescription by Queen Victoria's doctor. Watch the video :. Just because you're a politician doesn't mean you come naturally to glad-handing. From the ``swing and miss'' to the ``smile, the cameras are rolling,'' the video age has captured a number of strange attempts by politicians attempting to look socially casual. Watch the video :. Just as Jimmy Fallon become the go-to guy for viral video, newly minted ``Late Late Show'' host James Corden began staking his claim. CNN's Lisa France addresses the latest late-night matchups. Watch the video :. On Thursday, a video of ESPN reporter Britt McHenry insulting a tow company clerk came out -- and immediately went viral. McHenry was suspended for a week. Watch the video :. There are just four countries in the entire world that don't guarantee any form of paid maternity leave. The U.S. is one of them. This and other details of women's status in the United States are examined in this video, as well as a remarkable series by CNN's Jessica Ravitz. Watch the video :. Five northern white rhinoceroses are left in the entire world. All are in captivity -- and just one is male. He's now being protected by armed guards around the clock. Watch the video :. TEPCO, the Japanese utility, sent a robot in to examine the remains of the Fukushima nuclear plant, destroyed in a 2011 tsunami. What it recorded was startling. Watch the video :. Leave it to NASA to create a car that might make the problems of parallel parking a thing of the past. Oh, and it'll also probably work well on space missions. Former NFL player Aaron Hernandez was found guilty of murder earlier this week. What happened at his trial ?. Watch the video :. This summer, after nine years traveling through space, the New Horizons spacecraft is scheduled to reach Pluto. What will we learn ? Some new pictures offer clues.
( CNN ) Mountaineers have returned to Mount Everest for this year's climbing season, resuming the quest to summit the world's highest peak after a deadly season last year. In 2014, the Nepal climbing season ended after a piece of glacial ice fell, unleashing an avalanche that killed 16 Nepalis who had just finished their morning prayers. The April 18 accident was the single deadliest incident to ever occur on Mount Everest. The deaths launched fierce debates about the enormous risks faced by the Sherpas and the dangers of climbing Everest. In order to reduce risks, the route through Khumbu Icefall, the notoriously treacherous path where the 16 were killed, has been changed to one that takes longer but is expected to be safer. ``They're going in the icefall and, as we found out on April 18, it's the most dangerous place,'' said Conrad Anker, a veteran climber who has been to Everest three times. ``They're exposed to the tumbling ice, hanging seracs above it. It's very, very dangerous. It's the most dangerous place I've been in the mountains.''. At this point in the season, climbing teams have not yet entered Khumbu Icefall, which is essentially a frozen river rapid with jagged pieces breaking off and moving. Nepal has issued 347 permits this year to climb Mount Everest, with 125 of them from the previously shortened season, according to the Nepal Ministry of Tourism. It's a slight increase from the 334 who were given permission last year. The local Nepalese committee that determines the path up Everest announced in February that a different route had been selected. The climbers will now take a central route through the Khumbu Icefall, avoiding the area where the deaths occurred. The committee comprised of Sherpas voted to return to the central route for safety reasons. ``There will be little risk of avalanche than in the right or left,'' said Yangji Doma Sherpa, the spokeswoman for the Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee. The central route had been used in the 1990s, but was abandoned in favor of a quicker route, she said. The new path means climbers will have to cross more crevasses, and use more vertical and horizontal ladders. The committee issued a recommendation that the weight of workers' gear be limited to avoid overloading the ladders. ``I think it will be an hour longer on the icefall,'' said Alan Arnette, who is blogging from Everest base camp this season. ``I don't think it will be game changer.''. But one company, Alpenglow Expeditions, said it would stop climbing from the Nepal side, where the climbers have to go through the icefall, in favor of the northern route from China. ``We've seen it get progressively more dangerous over the last few years,'' said Adrian Ballinger, the company's founder and CEO. ``We believe the risk is too great for our workers.''. According to the China Tibet Mountaineering Association, 320 people have been registered to climb the northern route to Everest this year. That's 136 more than last year. The Chinese side of Everest has typically been less popular than its Nepal counterpart, because of concerns of government closures. Some Everest observers say the northern route has harsher weather and more rocky terrain, but it also doesn't have an icefall. The increasing popularity of the northern route has caused concern amongst Nepali companies that climbers will divert to the Chinese side. ``I can already see the shift with mountaineers I speak to,'' said Dawa Steven Sherpa, who is based in Nepal. ``More people are going to go to Tibet than Nepal. Nepal needs the tourism far more than China does. China has incredible wealth of resources and Nepal does not.''. Leading expeditions is how Sherpas feed their families and send their children to school. Nepal depends heavily on tourism dollars. Many of the guides had to bury their friends after the accident last year, and while they may be ready to return to the summit, their families are not. Many of them are ``leaving behind nervous, stressed-out wives and children,'' whose memories of what happened last year are fresh, said Dawa Sherpa, managing director of Asian Trekking. ``They do say they don't want to put them through that again,'' he said. ``They're not fearful for their own lives, it's what they're putting their family through.''. Several mountaineers are also returning this year. One of them is Jon Reiter, who spoke to CNN last year after the tragedy. When the icy avalanche thundered down, Reiter was shoved behind an ice block by his Sherpa guide. Reiter, who is making his way to base camp this year, could not be reached directly. But he explained why he's heading back to Everest this year on his blog. ``I can't quite find the words to tell you why, or what really pulls me back to the mountains,'' he wrote. ``When we were in the midst of last year's events it was hard to see the big picture. It was hard to remember that people die in the mountains but that it's more rare than not. ``It was hard for me to remember that I'm not choosing between my life at home and dying in the mountains. I like to think it's similar to surviving a plane crash or a major pile up on the freeway.''. CNN's Sugam Pokharel contributed to this report.
Boston ( CNN ) Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's bombs tore through their bodies : singeing flesh, shattering bones, shredding muscles and severing limbs. But on Tuesday, jurors also began to hear about the holes his bombs left in the hearts of the survivors and the families of the dead. Now that he has been found guilty on every count, the jury must decide whether Boston Marathon bomber Tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done. This is the victim impact part of the case, and the testimony was heartbreaking. Four young people are gone, and grief fills the spaces they once occupied. A father with a shock of white hair cried for the daughter he called ``Princess.''. ``Krystle was the light of my life. She was extremely smart, hardworking, beautiful, every father's dream. I miss her a lot,'' said William A. Campbell Sr., dabbing at his eyes as he described his daughter, a 29-year-old restaurant manager who was killed in the first blast at the 2013 Boston Marathon. She was the one who could round up the family and put on big celebrations, he said. ``Nobody fills that boot now.''. Others are expected to come and cry for Lingzi Lu, ``a jolly soul,'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Nadine Pellegrini said, quoting the slain Chinese grad student's father. More tears will be shed for Martin Richard, who was 8 and looked just like his dad. And for Sean Collier, who was remembered at his memorial service by these words : ``Big heart, big smiles, big service. All love.''. ``Dzhokhar Tsarnaev murdered each one of them in a way that they had time to feel pain, they had time to be scared and frightened, but they had no time to say good-bye,'' Pellegrini told the jury. ``And that is the very essence of terror.''. Timeline of bombings, manhunt and aftermath. To understand the toll Tsarnaev's bombs took, jurors must know the stories of his victims, the prosecutor said. ``These young women, this young man and this little boy, all of them were loved and they loved in return,'' Pellegrini said. ``Before he murdered them in some of the cruelest ways imaginable, they were sons, they were daughters, they were grandchildren, they were brothers and they were sisters.''. Jurors saw photograph after photograph of smiling, happy people with arms around siblings at weddings and birthday parties and family gatherings. There was the photo of Campbell as a little girl in a red tap-dancing outfit. And then came the one that made her father smile through his tears. She was a little older and wearing a baseball uniform. ``She traded that in for a bat,'' Campbell said. ``She wasn't really a girly girl, but she loved to whitewater, camp, play baseball. She had a good arm on her. I was very proud of her.''. By contrast, jurors also were left with an indelible image of Tsarnaev, taken when he was in a holding cell in the very courthouse where the trial is being held. It is dated July 10, 2013 -- the day of his arraignment on charges he deliberately set off the deadly bombs at the Boston Marathon. He glares into the camera defiantly, his middle finger raised in a profane salute. ``This is Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, unconcerned, unrepentant and unchanged,'' Pellegrini said. ``Without remorse, he remains untouched by the grief and the loss that he caused.''. Tsarnaev saw the people he killed as ``the enemy,'' she said. As a result, two women and a man never reached the age of 30, and a little boy never made it to the third grade. ``He knew they were innocents. He even called them that,'' Pellegrini added, referring to the message Tsarnaev scrawled onto the sides of a boat where he hid from police after the bombings. ``But it didn't stop him from murdering them.''. The people who were maimed by Tsarnaev's bombs are also testifying during the sentencing phase of the trial as prosecutors try to show the impact on victims of the attacks. The stories they told on the witness stand were even more gripping and horrific than the stories told during the guilt phase of Tsarnaev's trial. When the first of the two bombs went off, Gillian Reny, a senior in high school, was standing near the woman she came to know was Krystle Campbell. ``There was a complete, utter chilling silence and then chaos. Chaos like I'd never seen and never hope to see again,'' she said. The force of the blast knocked her to the ground. When she looked around, she saw blood and muscle everywhere. Her shin bone had snapped and was protruding. ``Muscle was everywhere. It was the most horrifying image I could imagine. Just seeing that on my own body,'' she said, and began to cry. ``I remember looking around and it just seemed like there were bodies everywhere, blood everywhere.''. Were you bleeding ? she was asked. ``Yes, enormously. Looking down at the blood I was just shocked that much blood could come out of someone,'' she said. ``I was terrified that I was going to die. I did not know that I could be that injured and survive.''. She said she began to scream. Her bone-chilling cries could be heard on a video played in court -- the most graphic of many graphic images the jury has been shown. Doctors were able to save Reny's leg, but others weren't so lucky. Celeste Corcoran lost both legs, one below the knee and the other above the knee. An amputation above the knee is the most difficult injury to recover from, jurors have learned at this trial. Corcoran was at the finish line, waiting for her sister to cross. ``And then our whole world just exploded,'' she said. ``I unfortunately remember every single detail.''. She remembers being knocked to the ground, hearing nothing and then screams, and seeing blood everywhere. ``It's kind of hard to explain but I want to get it right for all of you to understand,'' she told the jury. She said it was ``a surreal, out-of-body experience.'' She remembers thinking, ``What was that ?'' and wishing she could turn back time by five minutes. Her husband bent over her and told her it was a terrorist attack. By then, she began to feel pain worse than anything she had imagined. She wondered if she would die. ``It hurt too much. I just didn't care,'' she said. ``I remember thinking I was going to die, that no one could go through that much pain. I knew it was very bad and I was thinking, `Is this it ? Am I going to die ?' I remember thinking I wanted to die. The pain was too much. I wanted to die.''. And then, she said, ``the mom in me'' took over. She remembers telling herself :'' `Hell no, I don't want to die. I have too much living to do. Don't let this be the end. This can't be the end.'''. She remembers feeling relief once she arrived at the hospital, even as she signed the form authorizing doctors to take both her legs. ``Can I get on with my life ? Absolutely,'' she said. But she can never forget she's a double amputee. ``There's always a level of discomfort. Right now I'm not comfortable,'' she said from the witness stand. ``The bottoms of my limbs, there's this constant numb burning sensation. The only way I can describe it is it's like you have the worst athlete's foot in my life.''. Sometimes, she feels a stabbing sensation where her toes and calves used to be. ``You don't realize until you're a double amputee how many dips and hills and inclines there are,'' she said. ``Inclines are very hard.''. Daily life is literally an uphill battle. Opinion : What Tsarnaev deserves. CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Pope Francis has accepted the resignation of Bishop Robert Finn, who remained on the job for years after becoming the highest-ranking U.S. Catholic official convicted in connection with the church's long-running sex abuse scandal, the Vatican announced Tuesday. Finn, who led the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph, Missouri, was found guilty in 2012 of failure to report suspected child abuse. The case was tried by a judge instead of by jury because prosecutors wanted to protect the young victims' anonymity. Finn was convicted of one count but not a misdemeanor charge he'd also faced. He was put on two years' probation but was not forced to spend time in jail or pay a fine, according to the Jackson County Prosecuting Attorney's Office. Two charges against his diocese were dropped. At the time of his conviction, Finn said, according to CNN affiliate KCTV : ``I truly regret and am sorry for the hurt these events have caused.''. Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker said the conviction and penalty, which included starting a $ 10,000 fund for sexual abuse counseling and mandatory training for church officials on how to report abuse, would have positive ramifications. ``We can be assured now that if an allegation of child abuse comes to the attention of the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph, there will be no hesitation to report it immediately to the proper authorities,'' Baker said. The case against Finn revolved around his diocese's dealings with Shawn Ratigan, an Independence, Missouri, priest who pleaded guilty in August 2012 to five child pornography charges. Church officials found disturbing images on Ratigan's computer but didn't notify police until nearly five months later, prosecutors said. In those interceding months, the priest kept on working. And Finn kept his job as bishop, even after his 2012 conviction. The official website of the Catholic diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph still listed him as its bishop Tuesday morning. Cardinal Sean O'Malley, who took over the abuse-shaken Boston archdiocese and has become one of the Pope's point men in the United States, has acknowledged the inconsistency that someone who wouldn't be allowed to teach Sunday school was still running an American diocese. ``It's a question that the Holy See needs to address urgently,'' O'Malley said in a ``60 Minutes'' interview in November. ``There's a recognition of that.. from Pope Francis.''. Candida Moss -- a professor at Notre Dame, a Catholic university in Indiana -- said it ``doesn't look very urgent'' that a decision came down only now, nearly three years after the conviction and five months after O'Malley's comments. Several factors may have played a role in the delay, including views from lawyers or power players at the Vatican, who may be reluctant to cast blame at high-level officials who don't report allegations quickly enough to government authorities. But the timing of the announcement may make sense given that it comes weeks after Francis came under fire for the installation of a new bishop in Chile, Juan Barros, despite protesters' claims he was complicit in sexual abuse cases there. ``It kind of shook Francis' reputation,'' said Moss. ``Having this resignation and putting right one of the more visible injustices on this, especially in the U.S., I think this is a typical Francis way to reinstall confidence.''. Now that the case has been addressed, the Kansas City-St. Joseph diocese has a new leader : Kansas Archbishop Joseph Naumann. Under the Pope's directive, Naumann will be the Kansas City diocese's apostolic administrator, in addition to his regular responsibilities in Kansas, until a permanent bishop is appointed, according to an announcement on the diocese's website. ``I pray that the coming weeks and months will be a time of grace and healing for the Diocese,'' Naumann said in an open letter to parishioners. ``All of us, who are privileged to serve in leadership for the Church, do so for only a season. It is not our Church, but Christ's Church.''. Moss, the Notre Dame professor, predicted that the shuffling at the western Missouri diocese will be ``very well received,'' though some may question why it took so long. ``It's not just that it's late,'' Moss said, ``but it's that Francis could have been more explicit.''. To that point, the co-director of BishopAccountability.org asked for more elaboration than the Vatican's one-line announcement that Francis accepted the resignation ``in accordance with.. Canon Law.''. Anne Doyle, from the watchdog group that documents the Catholic church's abuse crisis, called Finn's removal ``a good step but just the beginning.''. ``The pope must show that this decision represents a meaningful shift in papal practice -- that it signals a new era in bishop accountability,'' Doyle said.''.. What no pope has done to date is publicly confirm that he removed a culpable bishop because of his failure to make children's safety his first priority. We urge Pope Francis to issue such a statement immediately.''. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The much-discussed trailer for ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice'' just got a makeover. Soon after the trailer went up late on Friday, YouTuber Bobby Burns got to work on doing his own version using classic superhero footage. Instead of Ben Affleck and Henry Cavill facing off, this version wonders what it would be like if comics' classic characters Adam West and Christopher Reeve took their places. CNN spoke to 18-year-old Burns about what motivated him to make his now-viral video. ( Warner Bros. Pictures, the studio behind ``Batman v. Superman,'' is owned by Time Warner, as is CNN. ). CNN : When did you start making YouTube videos like this ?. Burns : At age 11. I work for the Made In Network in Nashville, Tennessee. CNN : Where did this idea come from ?. Burns : I'm pretty hyped for ``Batman v. Superman.'' As soon as I saw the trailer, my brain immediately went to the classic ``Batman'' -LSB- TV series -RSB- and I thought how funny it would be if this film was made at the time. CNN : What were you looking to accomplish ?. Burns : I wanted to contrast the old with the new. CNN : What kind of reaction have you received ?. Burns : Within an hour of the trailer going up, I went to work on the edit. Within four hours, my edit was finished and up on the Internet. The reaction has been great ! It's awesome to see so many people enjoying what I made. Take a look at the fan trailer below :.
( CNN ) The TV season is winding down, and the finales are starting. Those endings lead off this week's six things to watch. 1. ``The Americans,'' 10 p.m. ET Wednesday, FX. Critics continue to praise ``The Americans'' as one of the best series on TV, and every finale has delivered in a big way. Season 3 has seen a battle for the soul of daughter Paige, the return of fan favorite Margo Martindale and Soviet agent Nina getting back in the game. The finale is titled ``March 8, 1983.'' That's the date when President Reagan called the Soviet Union an ``evil empire.'' We shall see what surprises lie in store for the season ender. 2. ``Fresh Off the Boat,'' 8 p.m. ET Tuesday, ABC. Critics and viewers seem to have taken to ``Fresh,'' the first sitcom with an Asian-American cast since the 1990s. It hasn't been picked up for a second season, but the signs are looking good. 3. ``Vikings,'' 10 p.m. ET Thursday, History. The first History Channel scripted series, which been renewed for a fourth season, wraps up on Thursday. 4. ``Scorpion,'' 8 p.m. ET Monday, CBS. This based-on-a-true-story show, about a ragtag band of geniuses sent on secret missions, got a lot of hype for CBS in the early going, and that was enough to get it a second season. With the producers safe in that knowledge, we could get a surprising season finale. 5. ``Broadchurch,'' 10 p.m. ET Wednesday, BBC America. Fox's American remake, ``Gracepoint,'' didn't last, but the British mystery series starring David Tennant continues. Another murder could be solved -- and the trial based on the events of season 1 resolved -- by the end of this finale. 6. Academy of Country Music Awards, 8 p.m. ET Sunday, CBS. Luke Bryan and Blake Shelton return to host the 50th annual awards. Christina Aguilera is set to perform a ``surprise duet'' ( yes, that Christina Aguilera ).
( CNN ) How will the new ``Fantastic Four'' differ from the original movie of a decade ago ?. For starters, as a new trailer shows, Sue and Johnny Storm's father initiates the project that ends up giving the foursome their powers. They also end up in another dimension, and we see the early flirtation between Sue Storm and Reed Richards as well. The movie, due out August 7, promises a very different take on the classic Marvel comics characters, played this go-round by Miles Teller, Kate Mara, Michael B. Jordan and Jamie Bell. We also get our first glimpse of the villainous Dr. Doom in this new trailer, released Sunday. Fans on Twitter had mixed reactions. Check out the trailer here :. The trailerpalooza of ``Star Wars,'' ``Batman v. Superman'' and ``Fantastic Four'' kept sci-fi and superhero fans chattering all weekend. Not to be outdone, the new trailer for ``Jurassic World'' came out Monday morning. It features even more of star Chris Pratt. Pratt's scientist character knows dinosaurs better than anyone. After a genetically modified mutant dinosaur escapes from an island theme park along with others, he takes charge of a mission to contain the dangerous creatures. ( The trailer also includes part of a scene that caused controversy after Joss Whedon called it ``sexist'' last week. ). The movie is first in the rampaging-dino franchise since ``Jurassic Park III'' in 2001. And, as we see for the first time, the dinosaurs have learned to communicate with each other. Uh-oh. Early word on Twitter was pretty good. Here's the new trailer for the movie, out June 12 :.
( Billboard ) Considering the Academy of Country Music Awards celebrated its 50th anniversary on Sunday night at the Dallas Cowboys stadium, it was bound to be bigger than any previous year's ACMs. Plus, as hosts Blake Shelton and Luke Bryan were quick to point out, everything is bigger in Texas. Billboard : 2015 ACM Awards : See All the Photos. But bigger isn't always better. Here's our breakdown of the 10 best and 5 worst moments at the 2015 ACMs. The Best. Eric Church & Keith Urban provide an opening wallop. With a full stadium and millions of home viewers watching, two of country's leading men successfully lit the fuse for the 50th annual ACM Awards with a slick joint kickoff performance. Eric Church's ``Pledge Allegiance To The Hag'' was a fine throwback, but Keith Urban's powerhouse ``Raise'Em Up'' lived up to its title -- and then some. Setting a Guinness World Record. Not only was this the ACMs biggest audience ever, but the 2015 ACM Awards brought in the biggest audience for a live TV awards show ever. Now that's how you celebrate half a century. Reba McEntire demonstrates how it's done. During a night that found a couple performers sounding a little weak in the vocal department, Reba McEntire showed the entire Cowboys stadium -- and many younger singers who don't have half her energy -- how it's done. Reba is eternal. Taylor Swift singing in the audience. Whether it was during Eric Church or Martina McBride, T-Swift was heating up the audience by singing and swaying along to country staples. Taylor might have gone pop for ``1989,'' but she was deep in the heart of Texas for this annual country extravaganza. Billboard : 2015 ACM Awards : And the Winners Are.. Garth Brooks' All-American salute. During Brooks' performance of ``All-American Kid,'' the country giant welcomed a slew of U.S. military representatives into AT&T Stadium, in an emotional moment that put the red, white and blue front and center. Brooks ended the performance by saluting the U.S. armed forces ``who are here and are all around the world for protecting our freedom,'' and also shouted out his home state of Oklahoma, who are grieving 20 years after the Oklahoma City bombing on Sunday. A truly classy moment from one of the best ever. Taylor Swift's mom makes an appearance. Sure, Andrea Swift's presentation of a special award for her daughter came with a fun origin tale about the creation of ``Love Story'' and some lovely words about the 25-year-old superstar. But the sight of the elder Swift -- just days after Taylor confirmed that her mother had been diagnosed with cancer -- walking to the podium was more than enough to yield one of the night's most poignant moments. Christina Aguilera joins Rascal Flatts. Aguilera is far from country, but with a voice as malleable as hers, she can pass for a song or two. After singing a bit of the tune she did while guesting on Nashville, Xtina joined longtime hitmakers Rascal Flatts for ``Riot'' from their recent album ``Rewind.'' Aguilera and Gary LeVox trading vocals was the rare unexpected artist pairing that actually worked. Miranda Lambert domination. In addition to kicking ass during her ``Mama's Broken Heart'' / ``Little Red Wagon'' medley, Lambert justly owned the night when it came to awards. If there's one thing the country community loves more than Miranda Lambert, it's giving Miranda Lambert awards. Billboard : Watch Little Big Town Bring Provocative `Girl Crush' to ACMs. Little Big Town don't back down. Despite some mild controversy over their song ``Girl Crush,'' Little Big Town brought the poignant ballad to the awards show, giving the ACMs one of its more melancholy moments. Jason Aldean comes on strong. For a night featuring some shaky vocals, Aldean brought his silky yet powerful country croon to the ACMs during a massive medley. It's hard to see an audience get weak in the knees when you're watching at home, but it's fair to assume that's what happened during his performance. The Worst. Tony Romo. The Dallas Cowboys QB was understandably a little stiff on the mic ( athletes usually aren't the most charismatic public speakers ) but the whole gag with Shelton asking Romo to toss Bryan a pass went on waaaaay too long. On the plus side, Bryan caught the pass. On the other hand, there was a tired play on words about balls. The length. Three hours for the 50th ACMs ? Sure, why not. Three and a half hours ? That's pushing it. They could have shaved off the last half hour by cutting a couple of the performers who only sang half a song, and shortened a few of the massive commercial breaks. All of the Milestone Awards. Taylor Swift was given an extended honor at this year's ACM Awards, but some of the Milestone Awards -- especially those given to Reba McEntire, Kenny Chesney and George Strait -- seemed rushed for the country giants they were saluting. It's understandable since 2015 is the 50th anniversary of the ACMs, but sometimes, less ( recipients ) is more. Steven Tyler's facial hair. See link. Twitter calling out Taylor Swift. Plenty of country fans went after T-Swizzle on Twitter, berating her for attending the ACMs after ``abandoning'' country music for pop. The truth is, Swift has just as many country classics under her belt as any other artist in her age range. She might have moved to pop, but don't underplay her importance to the genre that birthed her. © 2015 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.
( Billboard ) The key to rock's longevity is it never defines itself into irrelevance. So while there were some loud, dirty guitars at the 2015 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony in Cleveland on Saturday night, there was as much recognition for rock's antecedents in soul and blues, speaking less to a particular taxonomy than a spirit that's beyond words. It's easy to talk of such spirit when Paul McCartney is there to honor Ringo Starr, and Yoko Ono is on hand as well. Speaking briefly backstage, Ono expressed feeling that it was wonderful for Starr to be honored, ``just sad John and George aren't here,'' referring to her late husband John Lennon and Beatles guitarist and fellow songwriter George Harrison. Starr was certainly happy to be there -- after a long wait, he's the final Beatle to be inducted as a solo act. ``I've finally been invited, and I love it,'' said the 74-year-old drummer. ``I got lucky, and it was actually in Cleveland,'' he said to enormous applause. Fifty-one years earlier, Starr had been in town to play the very same Hall ; he admitted backstage that he didn't remember the cops stopping the show during ``All My Loving'' and making the Beatles return to the dressing room for ten minutes until the fans could be calmed. Starr said in a backstage interview that he couldn't recall the incident specifically, but admitted that there had been a lot of shows in between. ``I'll remember this one,'' he promised. Others receiving Rock Hall honors included Paul Butterfield Blues Band, early soul act The 5 Royales, singer Bill Withers, punk rockers Green Day, Lou Reed, Joan Jett & the Blackhearts and Stevie Ray Vaughan. It was a night for the young to honor the old and perhaps prepare for a later visit. John Mayer hailed his longtime idol, the late Vaughan, in a heartfelt speech. John Legend came out to honor Bill Withers with a performance of ``Use Me'' backed by Stevie Wonder, who inducted Withers. The two then shared ``Lean on Me,'' until Legend went and pulled Withers to the front of the stage to join them. Beck, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Bill Withers, Seymour Stein hit Rock Hall's weekend festivities. The 76-year old soul legend hasn't performed live in many years but had hinted in the months leading up to the induction ceremonies that he might sing once more. Withers sounded great, though he may have an even brighter future in stand-up. ``This has got to be the biggest AA meeting -LSB- in the -RSB- Western hemisphere,'' said Withers, alluding to an earlier moment in the show when Jimmie Vaughan confessed, ``I taught my brother guitar, and he taught me how to get sober.''. He called being inducted by Wonder, ``A lion holding the door for a kitty cat.''. The moment of relative levity was welcome after moving tributes paid to the late Lou Reed by Patti Smith and Reed's widow, music artist Laurie Anderson, who shared the three rules for life that they came up with : ``One : don't be afraid of anyone ; Two : get a really good b ------ t detector and learn how to use it ; Three : be really, really tender.''. Smith had to push back tears on at least three occasions. She recalled a night when they wound up in the same hotel and Reed invited her up. She found him in the tub dressed in black and she sat on the toilet and talked with him. Green Day was inducted by Fall Out Boy, who referenced the length of some of the speeches. Cracked Fall Out Boy frontman Patrick Stump : ``I feel like I'm in a line at the DMV.'' As one of the youngest acts, it's not surprising they gave one of the two most exciting performances of the evening. Rock Hall induction ceremony : Lou Reed `would be amused,' says sister. The other belonged to Tom Morello, Doyle Bramhall II and Zac Brown with harmonica player Jason Ricci performing ``Born in Chicago'' in tribute to the Paul Butterfield Blues Band. Not only did Ricci slay, but Morello played a nasty scabrous solo that raised the hairs on your arm, it was so alive. Miley Cyrus inducted Joan Jett in her own inimitable way, recalling a time she walked in on Jett smoking pot and being so turned on by her strength, wisdom and soul that the young pop star wanted to have sex with the legendary rocker. Jett joined the Blackhearts and Foo Fighters' Dave Grohl for a mini-set that include such classics as ``Bad Reputation,'' the Runaways' ``Cherry Bomb'' and ``Crimson and Clover,'' the Tommy James & the Shondelles cover that Jett took to No. 1. It was that kind of a night, and it closed with a rousing version of the Beatles' ``I Want to Be Your Man,'' where just about everybody who could make it out on stage did, including a near-end guitar scrum/lead-off between Gary Clark Jr., Morello, Zac Brown and Yeah Yeah Yeahs' Nick Zinner. © 2015 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) The author of a 2006 novel has accused the ``Avengers'' director and ``Cabin'' director Drew Goddard of stealing his idea. With just weeks until his box-office victory lap for ``Avengers : Age of Ultron,'' Joss Whedon is now facing a lawsuit accusing him of stealing the idea for the 2012 meta-horror movie The Cabin in the Woods. Whedon produced and co-wrote the script for Cabin with director Drew Goddard, a writer on Whedon's ``Buffy the Vampire Slayer'' and a fanboy favorite in his own right, with credits that include Netflix's ``Daredevil'' ( and reportedly may soon include Sony's upcoming Spider-Man projects ). Whedon and Goddard are named as defendants, along with Lionsgate and Whedon's Mutant Enemy production company, in the complaint filed Monday in California federal court. Joss Whedon Slams `Jurassic World' Clip as'''70s - Era Sexist''. In the complaint, Peter Gallagher ( no, not that Peter Gallagher ) claims Whedon and Goddard took the idea for ``The Cabin in the Woods'' from his 2006 novel ``The Little White Trip : A Night In the Pines.'' He's suing for copyright infringement and wants $ 10 million in damages. Gallagher is basing his claim on the works' similar premises : Both feature a group of young people terrorized by monsters while staying at a cabin in what is revealed to be ( spoiler alert ) a horror-film scenario designed by mysterious operators. Read the full complaint. Gallagher also alleges similarities between the characters' names and personalities -- his book's blond Julie and shy Dura and the film's Jules ( Anna Hutchison ) and Dana ( Kristen Connolly ), and handsome and scatterbrained men in both works -- and certain scenes involving the characters finding strange items in their respective cabins and discovering hidden cameras. `Age of Ultron' : Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch Are ``Massively Important,'' Says Joss Whedon ( Video ). In the complaint, Gallagher describes how he self-published the novel and ``began grassroots efforts'' to sell it on the Venice Beach boardwalk and on Santa Monica's Third Street Promenade.'' -LSB- The defendants -RSB- currently reside and operate out of Santa Monica, California, a short distance from where the Book was sold,'' the lawsuit claims. Gallagher alleges that he ``was contacted by multiple credited entertainment industry producers who expressed interest in the Book,'' but he doesn't specify Lionsgate or Mutant Enemy. A Lionsgate spokesman declined to comment. The Hollywood Reporter has reached out to representatives for Whedon and Goddard. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) All we want for Christmas is you, Mariah Carey !. According to EW, New Line Cinema is planning a Mariah Carey Christmas movie. Producer Jonathan Shestack confirmed that he is working on the yet-untitled project with Carey's good friend director Brett Ratner co-producing. ``It's a little bit about how music can take you back in time,'' Shestack told EW. ``It will be everything you hope a Christmas movie with Mariah Carey would be.''. Here are five reasons this movie has to happen :. What is the Christmas season without a little Mariah ?. Duh !. Her 1994 hit ``All I Want For Christmas is You'' is a classic, and admit it : You start listening to it well before the holiday season even begins. It's the jam !. The'90s are so coming back. The Backstreet Boys have a documentary out, NBC is bringing the sitcom ``Coach'' back to television, JNCO jeans are being spotted, and there's talk of a new version of ``Full House.''. Mariah was the queen of the 1990s, so it's only right that she get in on the revival. You can't forget about her. She already told you : ``Don't Forget About Us.''. She's come a long way from ``Glitter''. Carey was ridiculed for the dismal 2001 film ``Glitter,'' but she has more than since redeemed herself with small roles in the critically acclaimed Lee Daniels films ``Precious'' and ``The Butler.''. The Diva still reigns. Lest we forget how much sparkle she can bring into our lives, check out this collection of Mariah Carey throwing shade. It really is everything.
( CNN ) Olivia Wilde and Garrett Hedlund are set to return for Disney's ``Tron 3.''. The pair will reprise their characters from 2010's ``Tron : Legacy'' in the sequel, which is being directed by Joseph Kosinski. ``Legacy'' was the sequel to the 1982 sci-fi film that took place inside a computer world known as the Grid and starred Jeff Bridges and Bruce Boxleitner. While not a hit at the time, it later drew a big cult following and became an influence on filmmakers and pop culture. Decades later, Disney revisited the world with ``Legacy.'' The story revealed that the computer-programmer character played by Bridges had a son ( Hedlund ) who jumped into the Grid to find his father. Wilde was Quorra, an algorithm-made-flesh who also happened to kick butt. How Warner Bros. can differentiate itself in the Marvel vs. DC battle ( Analysis ). Disney has been developing a sequel to ``Legacy'' since the movie grossed $ 400 million worldwide. Hedlund in 2012 said he would return to the visual-effects-heavy franchise, but that was when the project was circling a 2014 start. The project is now looking to shoot this fall, likely in Vancouver, British Columbia. Plot details are being kept offline. When will `Star Trek' get a cinematic universe ?. Justin Springer will be involved as a producer. Wilde is coming off starring in the Blumhouse-produced horror movie ``The Lazarus Effect.'' She is repped by WME, Untitled and Ziffren Brittenham. Why more `Star Wars' actors haven't vecome stars. Hedlund just boarded Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk and will be playing ``Hook'' in Pan, Warner Bros.' retelling of ``Peter Pan.'' He is repped by WME, Brillstein Entertainment and Sloane Offer. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) The arrest and death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore has stoked protests and accusations of police brutality. But it's unclear how Gray, arrested on a weapons charge April 12, suffered a severe spinal cord injury that led to his death seven days later. Here are the big questions surrounding this explosive case :. Gray's arrest. What we know : Gray was arrested on a weapons charge in a high-crime area of Baltimore known for drugs. He ``gave up without the use of force,'' according to Baltimore Deputy Police Commissioner Jerry Rodriguez. An officer apparently took his Taser out, and was prepared to use it on Gray, but he never deployed it, Rodriguez said, and none of the six officers involved in the arrest describe using force against the 25-year-old. Gray was placed inside a police van and was able to talk, said Rodriguez who described Gray as upset. ``And when Mr. Gray was taken out of that van, he could not talk, and he could not breathe,'' according to Rodriguez. What we don't know : It's unknown what caused the spinal cord injury that led to his death a week after the arrest, and it's also unknown what, if anything, happened inside the van. The knife. What we know : Court documents allege that Baltimore Police Department Officer Garrett Miller arrested Gray after finding a switchblade in his pocket. The Gray family attorney called the allegation a ``sideshow.'' Gray was carrying a ``pocket knife of legal size,'' attorney William Murphy told CNN. Police never saw the knife and chased Gray only after he ran from them, the attorney said. The court documents also say that Gray ``fled unprovoked upon noticing police presence.''. ``The officer noticed a knife clipped to the inside of his front right pants pocket. The defendant was arrested without force or incident,'' the documents say. ``The knife was recovered by this officer and found to be a spring assisted, one-hand-operated knife.''. Maryland law makes it illegal to ``wear or carry a dangerous weapon of any kind concealed on or about the person,'' including switchblades. What we don't know : It's not clear that simply having a knife is a crime, said Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. ``It is not necessarily probable cause to chase someone. So, we still have questions,'' she said. What can be seen on the released video. What we know : Segments of cell phone video shot from two different positions appear to begin after Gray has been arrested and show officers dragging Gray, who is handcuffed, to a van. He can be heard screaming. ``He was dragged a bit,'' said Rawlings-Blake, ``but then you see him using his legs to get into the van, so he was able-bodied when he was in the van, and we know that when he was finally taken out of the van, he was unresponsive.''. Officers placed more restraints on Gray inside the van, police said, while surveillance video recorded him conscious and talking. That was at 8:54 a.m.. At 9:24 a.m., police called an ambulance for Gray. Police say Gray requested medical attention, including an inhaler, and an ambulance later took him to the University of Maryland Medical Center's Shock Trauma Center. What we don't know : It's unknown why Gray screamed, and the video doesn't capture the entire incident, start to end. It's unclear what happened between 8:54 a.m. and 9:24 a.m. Police response. What we know : In the wake of Gray's death, six police officers have been suspended. Their names were released Tuesday, a standard procedure after an ``in-custody death,'' said Baltimore Police Department spokesman Capt. Eric Kowalczyk. It doesn't mean the officers did anything wrong or that they were the only officers involved, he said. They are : Lt. Brian Rice, 41, who joined the department in 1997 ; Officer Caesar Goodson, 45, who joined in 1999 ; Sgt. Alicia White, 30, who joined in 2010 ; Officer William Porter, 25, who joined in 2012 ; Officer Garrett Miller, 26, who joined in 2012 ; and Officer Edward Nero, 29, who joined in 2012. Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said that authorities plan to conclude their investigation by May 1. Their findings will go to the state's attorney's office, where prosecutors will decide whether charges should be filed. What we don't know : The officers say they didn't use force against Gray, but that's not certain. Gray's past run-ins with authorities. What we know : According to court documents CNN obtained, there were more than 20 criminal court cases in Maryland against Gray, and five of those cases were still active at the time of his death. The cases involve mostly drug-related charges, but there are charges from March for second-degree assault and destruction of property. Gray was due in court on a possession charge on April 24. He had been in and out of prison since 2009 for various drug cases, said Maryland Department of Corrections spokesman Gerard Shields. In February 2009, he was sentenced to four years in prison for two counts of drug possession with intent to deliver. Shields said he could not determine from records what kind of drug was involved. Gray was paroled on June 30, 2011. On April 4, 2012, Gray was arrested for violating parole but he didn't go back to prison, Shields said, reasoning that whatever Gray allegedly did, it ``was something minor.''. Gray went back to prison again in May 2013 for drug possession and served a month. He was released in June. What we don't know : It's not known whether Gray's criminal past had anything to do with his arrest, or his death. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Stephanie Gallman and Eliott C. McLaughlin, Dana Ford and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Washington. New York. Philadelphia. Havana ?. The Vatican says Pope Francis may add another leg to his trip to the United States this September, visiting Cuba just months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two nations. The possibility, which would add a dimension of international intrigue to an already highly anticipated trip, was first reported Thursday by The Wall Street Journal. In response to reporters' questions, Vatican spokesman the Rev. Federico Lombardi said in a statement, ``The Holy Father has taken into consideration the idea of making a stop in Cuba'' on his way to or from the United States this September. ``However, contacts with the Cuban authorities are still in too early a phase for it to be possible to regard this as a firm decision or an operative plan,'' Lombardi continued. Francis, the first pontiff to hail from Latin America, played a key role in the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States, earning praise from both President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro. The Pope made personal pleas to Obama and Cuban leaders in private letters, writing that the two nations should try to reset their relations after decades of friction. The Vatican also hosted talks between U.S. and Cuban delegations in October, where they hashed out aspects of a new trade policy and discussed the release of jailed American contractor Alan Gross, who was freed as part of the detente between the two countries. ``I want to thank His Holiness, Pope Francis, whose moral example shows us the importance of pursuing the world as it should be, rather than simply settling for the world as it is,'' Obama said in December as he announced the U.S. policy shift. Since his election in 2013, Pope Francis has displayed a deep interest in international affairs. He repeatedly urged Western leaders not to bomb Syria, hosted a prayer service between Israeli and Palestinian leaders at the Vatican and waded into diplomatic controversy on Sunday by referring to the killing of 1.5 million Armenians a century ago as a ``genocide,'' a move that deeply upset Turkish leaders, who recalled their Vatican ambassador. The Pope is expected to continue his international activism this July with a trip to South America, where he will visit Ecuador, Bolivia and Paraguay. Just a few months later, in late September, Francis will visit Washington, where he will address Congress ; New York, where he will address the U.N. General Assembly ; and Philadelphia, where he will celebrate a public Mass that's expected to draw more than 1 million people. In an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper on Friday, Archbishop Charles Chaput, the Pope's host in Philadelphia, said he'd hadn't heard about the potential for a papal visit to Cuba until he turned on the morning news. Two previous Popes have visited the Caribbean nation : St. John Paul II in 1998 and former Pope Benedict XVI in 2012.
( CNN ) A fiery sunset greeted people in Washington Sunday. The deep reddish color caught Seattle native Tim Durkan's eye. He photographed a handful of aerial shots of the sunset warming the city's skyline and shared them on CNN iReport. The stunning sunsets were the result of raging wildfires in parts of Siberia. ``The dramatic sunsets began showing up over the weekend and had Seattle locals wondering where the amber-colored haze was originating from,'' Durken said. The fires were started in southeastern Siberia, by farmers burning grass in their fields. But on April 14, it is believed that the flames quickly grew out of control because of strong winds and spread throughout the region, according to CNN affiliate KOMO-TV. As a result, the fires have destroyed dozens of villages in the region. Rescue crews were able to put out the flames. However, the lingering smoke from the widespread fires were picked up by atmospheric winds. The winds carried the smoke from Siberia across the Pacific Ocean and brought it to the Pacific Northwest. Parts of Oregon, Washington and British Columbia are seeing the results of the smoke, wind and solar light combination. The reason people are seeing an intense red sunset is a result of smoke particles filtering out the shorter wavelength colors from the sunlight like greens, blues, yellows and purples, KOMO-TV said. That means colors like red and orange are able to penetrate the air unfiltered. The colors are especially intense during sunrises and sunsets because there is more atmosphere for the light to travel through to get to a person's eye. As the smoke starts to dissipate, air quality will get better and these fiery sunsets will lose their reddish hue.
( CNN ) The Question : How can I know if my food is safe to eat after a specific product recall ?. The Answer : Many of us shed a few tears over the recent Sabra hummus recall ( even though we are perfectly capable of making our own at home ), but that sadness quickly transformed into anxiety when we looked inside our refrigerators and saw the potentially tainted culprit sitting there on the shelf. To assuage any fears, we asked John Swartzberg, M.D., a clinical professor at the University of California at Berkeley, to walk us through the process of determining if our favorite dip was still safe to eat. Related : Amy's Kitchen Recalls More Than 70,000 Cases Of Food Due To Fear Of Listeria Contamination. The first step, according to Swartzberg, is to go to the Food and Drug Administration's website and find the official report for the recalled product you're worried about. Each report will list recalled items with their product codes, which are typically categorized by the Universal Product Code ( the number adjacent to the barcode ) or the Stock Keeping Unit ( a specific number that would only be valid at the store where the product is being sold ). They will also include the recalled products' use-by dates, and the geographical areas affected. ``The recall is not based on the use-by dates, though,'' said Swartzberg. ``If the product is within the use-by date, it should still be recalled. This makes sense, because the product was contaminated prior to purchase and no matter how `fresh' the product is, it still may be contaminated.''. After cross-checking these details, you should have a strong sense of whether your food product is safe to eat or needs to be trashed right away. But as far as avoiding potential problems before learning such details about a food recall, the consumer is at an automatic disadvantage. Related : 14 Habits Of People With A Healthy Relationship To Food. ``There's nothing the consumer can do prior to learning about the recall,'' said Dr. Swartzberg. ``Discarding or returning the product to the store is all that can be done.''. In the case of this specific hummus recall, while there was no evidence that it caused any consumer illness, the product's routine sample last month revealed the presence of Listeria monocytogenes. Consuming such bacteria can lead to listeriosis, a serious infection, and Dr. Swartzberg recommends that anyone who has consumed a listeria-laden food should let their physician know as soon as possible. ``Listeria survives well at cool temperatures,'' he said. ``Most bacteria and fungi do not -- that's why we refrigerate. Healthy people are at low risk for disease, but it can happen. Those at greatest risk for disease are the elderly, immunocompromised and pregnant.''. To learn more about the best food safety practices, visit UC Berkeley's Wellness website. Related : 8 Things Nutrition Experts Wish You Would Stop Saying About Food.
( CNN ) I usually think of April as tax month, but it seems to be morphing into National Get Tested Month. Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban advised Twitterers to have their blood tested for everything available -- and to do so every three months. Following her mother's cancer diagnosis, singer Taylor Swift urged her fans to remind their parents to get screening tests. And Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey signed legislation to allow Arizonans to get any lab test without a doctor's order. Freedom of information -- always sounds like a good thing. But there are many lab tests to order on yourself : Medicare's Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Fee Schedule lists over a thousand. They are not all blood tests, but a lot of them are. And since blood tests require blood, you would surely develop at least one medical problem if you actually followed Mr. Cuban's advice to get them all : anemia. A frothy private sector is gearing up to serve the ``test me'' market. In those states that allow it -- and over half do -- laboratories are offering walk-in and online services to individuals who want to check their own lab values. ( And if you want to get in on the ground floor of this business, check out the franchise opportunities at Any Labtest Now, Fastest Labs, and All Labtests Fast. ). Some might argue that this freedom to test is the path to a healthier society. But the primary effect won't be more health, but rather more medical care. Fundamentally well people will appear in doctors' offices with ``abnormal'' results. Abnormalities are common in normal people, as we learned when Whole-body CT scanning was in vogue a decade ago ( thankfully, only briefly ). So doctors will increasingly face one of two options : take the time to reassure these new patients that their results aren't really that abnormal or chase down abnormal results with more testing. Further testing will often make clear that the initial results were false alarms. Or it will confirm the presence of abnormality -- most of which will be minor abnormalities. Often it won't be clear what to do, but doctors will be pressed to do something. That's when the real problems begin. Will anybody be helped ? Maybe. Will anybody be hurt ? Definitely. The disturbing truth is that it is hard for us to make well people feel better. But it's not that hard for us to make them feel worse. Decades of research have shown that there are real side-effects to testing the well : more anxiety ( that can't be good for your health ), more procedures ( which often involve needles, pain and can even lead to complications like collapsed lungs ) and more treatment for ``disease'' not destined to cause problems ( as in over a million additional American men treated for prostate cancer, ditto women for breast cancer ). To see how far wrong testing can go, check out South Korea : where ultrasound screening has increased the amount of thyroid cancer -- and thyroid cancer surgery -- by 15-fold. I can tell you one thing for sure, the freedom to test won't save money. Sure, a competitive market will drive down prices for individual tests. But advertising will drive up the volume of testing. And then there are all the office visits and subsequent testing for the abnormal results. This will cost people real money -- either in terms of higher insurance premiums or higher out-of-pocket costs. Maybe this kind of freedom of information isn't such a good thing. Of course, there have been genuine advances in diagnostic testing. Diagnostic tests can be extremely useful in sorting out acute medical problems. But if you feel well, don't think that testing will make you feel better. The biotech sector is excited about testing well people -- it's a huge market -- and is developing lots of new product. Now you can sequence your DNA, soon you will be able to monitor your immune system's signature. Now you can monitor your vital signs on your smartwatch, soon you will be able to test your breath for lung cancer on a phone app. They are even implanting thermodynamic sensors in a bra to test for breast cancer. A breast cancer monitoring bra -- I can't make this stuff up. Should we outlaw an individual's freedom to test ? No. We don't need another victimless crime. But it is certainly an area that demands regulation. The Food and Drug Administration has a longstanding mandate to protect us from snake oil treatments. Now it needs to start worrying about snake oil testing. It's also an area that demands education. The public needs to know that while medical data can be very useful, that doesn't mean they are routinely useful. Abnormalities in sick patients mean something different than the same abnormalities in well people. It is easier to collect data than it is to know what the data mean -- much less what to do about the results. Freedom is a good thing. But feel free not to exercise your freedoms. Just as carrying a gun doesn't necessarily make you any safer, testing yourself doesn't necessarily make you any healthier.
( CNN ) If there's one thing that hurts more than the saddle sores from cycling around China for 460 days, it's having the bike you did it on stolen just days before completing your epic trip. That's what happened to cyclist Wang Pingan as he neared the end of a two-wheel trek that covered thousands of miles through every major province in the vast country, according to local media. Arriving in the southern city of Shenzhen, in southern Guandong province, Wang locked up his trusty mountain bike, loaded with panniers, to check out electronics markets in the city's Huaqiangbei area. Within 10 minutes the thieves struck. But here's where the story takes an unexpected turn. Despite police initially saying odds were stacked against the bike ever being recovered, Shenzhen's finest managed to track it down and return it. The Southern Metro News reported that police apprehended an alleged criminal and sent Wang a photo of a bike they recovered. He recognized it instantly. They said the theft, from a road junction ``infested'' by cycle thieves was caught on surveillance cameras. The bike had likely been sold twice before being recovered. ``We don't want this lad visiting Shenzhen and having a bad memory of the city,'' a police spokesman told the paper. Now, with 29,200 kilometers under his tires, Wang can continue the final few days of his epic journey. He'll be able to add his final destination, Hainan Island, to a route that has already taken in some of the country's most far-flung places. Among them are Mohe in Heilongjiang, China's northernmost and coldest place, Urumqi in the west and Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture in the southwest.. Wang, a recent university graduate, who embarked on his trip with a budget of little more than $ 100, had earlier turned down offers from across China to help him get a new bike, vowing to walk if he couldn't be reunited with his ``old lover.''. ``It has a special meaning to me,'' he said, according to SMN. Before the bike's recovery, Wang had posted a heart-rending tribute to his bike on social media, recalling their adventures together. ``The bicycle itself doesn't have a high value, but spending more than a year with it, it's like a best friend who has accompanied me on my way, and taken me to every place without complaints,'' he writes. ``Thank you, my buddy, maybe I'll never see you again.. I remember I cried during the difficult times at the beginning of the trip and you were by my side.''. CNN's Shen Lu, Maggie Hiufu Wong and Barry Neild contributed to this story.
( CNN ) Saudi Arabia has executed a second Indonesian maid despite protests from Jakarta, which is itself facing fierce criticism for its failure to heed calls for clemency for a number of foreigners on death row. The Indonesian government summoned the Saudi ambassador to the foreign ministry on Thursday after learning that 37-year-old Karni Bt. Medi Tarsim had been beheaded, without official warning. Karni was sentenced to death in March 2013 for killing her employer's four-year-old child. She was the second Indonesian domestic worker executed by the Saudis this week, following the death of Siti Zaenab Bt. Duhri Rupa on Tuesday -- the execution again carried out with Indonesian officials receiving no prior warning. ``That is our main issue. It's not that suddenly there was an execution. We didn't know when it would take place. Still, we took over a hundred steps to try to free ( Siti ) from execution,'' said Arrmanatha Nasir, spokesman for Indonesia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Siti, 47, was convicted of killing her employer's wife in 1999, but the death penalty was delayed until the youngest of the victim's sons reached puberty and was old enough to consider requesting her pardon. He didn't. Rights groups say they suspect Siti was mentally ill and cast aspersions on claims she had confessed to the crime. Amnesty International also said reports suggested she had been abused while working in the victim's home. ``Imposing the death penalty and executing someone with a suspected mental illness smacks of a basic lack of humanity,'' said Philip Luther, Middle East and North Africa Programme Director at Amnesty International. In a statement, the Indonesian government said the protection of its citizens abroad was a ``priority'' and listed the attempts it had made to help Siti, including providing legal aid, writing letters to the Saudi King and ``continuous efforts.. to ask for forgiveness from the family.''. Indonesia said in many cases its efforts had worked. From July 2011 to the end of March this year, it said it had ``successfully freed'' 238 of its citizens from the death penalty. One of those was Satinah Binti Jumadi Ahmad who was sentenced to death in 2011 after reportedly admitting to killing her 70-year-old employer and stealing $ 10,000. Satinah claimed she acted in self-dense. Days before her scheduled execution, the Indonesian government stepped in with so-called ``blood money'' of 7 million Saudi riyals -- at the time worth about $ 1.8 million. Satinah was spared. Indonesia's efforts to save its own citizens does not sit well with advocates who are seeking the same mercy for foreigners languishing on Indonesia's death row. Two of the most high profile cases are Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, Australians convicted of attempting to smuggle heroin from Bali to Australia in 2005. Friday marks the 10-year anniversary of their arrest with seven other people -- members of the so-called ``Bali Nine'' -- who are currently serving lengthy sentences in Indonesian prisons. As the alleged ringleaders, Chan and Sukumaran were sentenced to death, and denied clemency from President Jokowi Widodo, a decision being challenged through the country's Constitutional Court. ``If Indonesia wants to effectively protect Indonesians from the death penalty abroad, Indonesia should also abolish the death penalty here,'' said Todung Mulya Lubis, one of the men's lawyers. Chan, 31, and Sukumaran -- who also turns 34 on Friday -- are currently incarcerated on Nusakambangan Island in preparation for their execution but no date has been set. Human Rights Watch called on Widodo to suspend all planned executions in Indonesia -- as the previous government did between 2008 and 2013. No executions were carried out in 2014, but earlier this year, six people -- including five foreigners -- faced the firing squad. ``The executions of two Indonesian citizens in Saudi Arabia in a single week should be a turning point on the subject of death penalty in Indonesia,'' said Andreas Harsono, the Indonesian researcher for Human Rights Watch. ``Please stop the lecture of sovereignty. It is so old fashioned.''. Before news of the second execution emerged on Thursday, the Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a press briefing to denounce the Saudi action. When asked whether Jakarta's complaints smacked of hypocrisy, given the country's refusal to spare foreigners on death row, spokesman Arrmanatha Nasir said : ``If you read our constitution, it is the job, the role of the government to protect its citizens, right ? So it's not a double standard.''. ``On the issue of death penalty, we can have a long debate whether it is against human rights or it is morally wrong or right. That's a whole other discussion, that's a whole other argument, but what we're saying now here is we are implementing our laws and we are adhering to our constitution that we have to protect our citizens abroad.''
( CNN ) Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has been caught on camera guzzling a glass of beer in seven seconds amid raucous cheers from onlookers. His feat of swift consumption in a crowded bar impressed some people but annoyed others. And observers were quick to point out that Abbott had previously criticized binge drinking in Australia. Abbott was in a Sydney pub on Saturday evening when a group of Australian rules football players invited him to have a drink with them. The Prime Minister accepted and even gave a short, impromptu speech, one of the football coaches, Simon Carrodus, told The Australian Woman's Weekly. ``Then he proceeds to reach down and grab a schooner and he drank from head-to-toe the entire schooner, dribbling little bits on his shirt.. tipped it upside down on his head. And he was proud as punch,'' Carrodus said. A schooner holds about three-quarters of a pint. Video of Abbott making short work of the beer as the crowd around him chants ``Skol ! Skol !'' drew plenty of attention on social media. Some commentators focused on Abbott's drinking technique. But others suggested he was setting a bad example. Abbott had attacked binge drinking as recently as last year. ``Like most Australians, I enjoy a drink on social occasions,'' he said in January 2014. ``However, as a father and as a citizen, I'm appalled by the violent binge drinking culture that now seems so prevalent, especially at ``hot spots'' in our big cities.''. Casting those concerns aside, some social media users belittled Abbott's beer swilling. They said his effort was a pale imitation of the legendary drinking exploits of former Prime Minister Bob Hawke, who is credited with drinking two and a half pints in 11 seconds.
( CNN ) Three British citizens arrested in the United Arab Emirates after they were found plane spotting near Fujairah airport are to be released Monday, their lawyer, Nasser al-Hashem, tells CNN. The three have been in jail since February 22. ``We made our defense, and the judge made the decision to drop the case,'' al-Hashem said. No charges were filed, there will be no travel ban, and the men will not face deportation, he said. Conrad Clitheroes, 54, and Gary Cooper, 45, were on a five-day visit to the UAE from Manchester when they were arrested. The third man, Neil Munro, is a British national who lives in the UAE. As a hobby, plane spotters view and photograph aircraft around the world.
( CNN ) Suspected Boko Haram militants this week attacked civilians inside Cameroon for the first time in a month, killing at least 16 villagers, a military spokesman told CNN Saturday. Six attackers were killed by Cameroonian forces, said Maj. Nlate Eballe, an operations officer with a special military unit set up to fight Boko Haram. The attackers came Thursday ``in the hundreds.. torched Dia village in the Far North Region,'' he said. Dia is a village that borders Lake Chad and has been identified as a recruiting ground for Boko Haram. Regional Gov. Mijiyawa Bakary said the insurgents have been attacking border villages in Cameroon in search of supplies. Cameroonian troops retook cattle that was stolen by the attackers in Dia, Eballe said. The last attack in Cameroon by the Nigeria-based militants was March 10, when the assailants struck the locality of Kerawa-Mafa in a failed attempt to overrun a military base. Boko Haram, whose name translates as ``Western education is sin,'' has been waging a years-long campaign of terror aimed at instituting its extreme version of Sharia law in Nigeria. Boko Haram's tactics have intensified in recent years, from battling Nigerian government soldiers to acts disproportionately affecting civilians -- such as raids on villages, mass kidnappings, assassinations, market bombings and attacks on churches and unaffiliated mosques. Much of this violence has taken place in Nigeria, but neighboring countries -- Cameroon included -- have also been hit increasingly hard. Journalist Ngala Killian Chimtom in Yaounde, Cameroon, contributed to this report.
Nairobi ( CNN ) An elite police commando unit waited hours for transport from Nairobi, Kenya, to Garissa, where Al-Shabaab terrorists had taken over a university on April 2, according to one of the commandos who participated in the response operation. The commando asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals and because he was not authorized to speak. Al-Shabaab slaughtered 147 people at the school. Of the fatalities, 142 were students at the university, and the rest were security forces and campus security. At 7:00 a.m. local time, the response team was told to assemble for a mission to Garissa, the police commando told CNN. At 8:00 a.m., he said, the team was told there were no police aircraft available to take them. A reserve team was then sent by road, while the main commando team waited in Nairobi for air transport, he said. Once told aircraft would be available, it took the commando team nearly two hours to travel the roughly 22 miles ( 35 kilometers ) to the airport because of the heavy traffic, the commando source said. But Kenya's Police Air Wing Chief Col. Rogers Mbithi denied that his unit caused any delay in the response to the university attack. Mbithi told CNN two fixed wing aircraft were ready and waiting for the commandos 45 minutes before the police commandos were ready to depart around 12:30 p.m. local time. Government names Kenya attack mastermind. Mbithi conceded that one of the two aircraft ultimately used to transport the commandos to Garissa left Nairobi at 7:30 a.m. to fly to Mombasa on a scheduled flight, hours after the Garissa terror attack began. That plane picked up the chief's daughter-in-law and two children, and returned to Nairobi at its scheduled time of 11:39 a.m., Mbithi said. The first aircraft carrying police commandos eventually departed for Garissa at 12:30 p.m., followed by a second aircraft about 10 minutes later, Mbithi said. Inside college dorm's scene of slaughter. After arriving in Garissa by plane, the commando team rehearsed the assault on the university compound for about two-and-a-half hours, the commando source told CNN. The police assault to retake the university compound began around 5 p.m. and lasted about 15 minutes. One commando was killed in the assault. All four Al-Shabaab attackers were killed. Another law enforcement source told CNN that by 7:00 a.m. the Al-Shabaab terrorists had already killed most of the students, saying : ``It was never a hostage situation.''. The problems plaguing Kenya's security efforts. Other Kenyan officials have previously defended the response to the university attack. Manoah Esipisu, a spokesman for Kenya's President and deputy president, told CNN last week that in emergency situations there is always criticism regarding whether governments reacted as fast as they could have or should have. ``With the benefit of hindsight, you can always say things could have been done better,'' he said. Kenyan authorities saved a lot of students and ``got the job done,'' he said. Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed told CNN the response was sufficient and denied reports that it was the elite rapid response team alone that brought an end to the situation. ``We have a military garrison in Garissa, and the work began immediately after the attack was reported and continued for a number of hours until we were able to rescue 663 students of the 800 students that had been taken hostage by these terrorists. So the response was adequate,'' she said. Lillian Leposo reported in Nairobi. Lonzo Cook reported in Atlanta. CNN's Jethro Mullen also contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It seems iPads hold their value pretty well, especially if they have papal connections. One that Pope Francis once owned just sold for $ 30,500, according to Castells, an auction house in Uruguay. The Apple tablet had all the personal touches. ``His Holiness Francisco'' and ``Vatican Internet Service, March 2013'' were engraved on the back in Spanish and Italian. It also came with a keyboard and a certificate signed by the Pope's personal secretary. The proceeds will go to a school in Montevideo, Uruguay. It's not the first time a papal hand-me-down has gone for big bucks. Last year, the Pope donated a Harley-Davidson that he was given to charity. The motorcycle sold for $ 284,000 at auction, more than 10 times its normal sales price. A Harley motorcycle jacket signed by Francis sold for nearly $ 68,000. CNN's Marilia Brocchetto contributed to this report.
London ( CNN ) A Polish Prince has challenged populist British politician Nigel Farage to a duel in London's Hyde Park over his immigration policy. Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party ( UKIP ), complains that Britain's membership of the European Union means it is powerless to stop a flow of foreign immigrants, many from impoverished Eastern Europe, into his ``small island'' nation. In a video posted on YouTube, Prince Jan Zylinski said he was fed up with discrimination against Poles living in Britain. ``The most idiotic example I've heard of has been Mr. Nigel Farage blaming migrants for traffic jams on the M40,'' Zylinksi said. Holding a sword that had belonged to his father -- a World War II war hero -- the prince laid down a verbal gauntlet. ``Enough is enough, Mr. Farage. So what I'd like to do, Mr. Farage, is to challenge you to a duel,'' he said. ``I would like us to meet in Hyde Park one morning with our swords and resolve this matter in the way that an 18th century Polish aristocrat and an English gentleman would traditionally do. ``Are you up for it Mr. Farage ?''. Farage -- who is on the campaign trail ahead of Britain's general elections on May 7 -- said he did not intend to cross swords with the prince. ``It is an impressive sword. I don't have one but I'm sure we could find one if we had to. But I'm not intending to accept the offer,'' a spokesman quoted him as saying. ``I would have thought that a Polish prince with a long Polish lineage would rather agree with me that it's a complete tragedy for Poland that it's lost so many of its brightest and best young people.''. UKIP wants Britain to leave the European Union. It says it would not seek to remain a party to the region's free trade or economic treaties ``while those treaties maintain a principle of free movement of labor, which prevents the UK managing its own borders.''. It has also pledged to cut the country's # 9 billion ( $ 12.4 B ) annual foreign aid budget. Another UKIP politician appeared to back his party leader's chances in a duel, tweeting an image of a medieval knight sliced in two, with the comment : ``This is what Nigel would do to him.''. But there was no word on whether Farage would even accept the prince's less life-threatening back-up challenge. ``Alternatively, if you don't agree or if your sword is a little bit rusty, Mr. Farage, we can meet for a different kind of duel -- a duel with words in a TV studio in the run-up to the elections,'' Zylinski suggested. ``I'm up for it, it would be really nice, hopefully you will agree.''. Zylinski posted a separate video on YouTube entitled ``7 reasons why the British should love the Poles,'' in which he pointed to a Times newspaper headline from March reading : ``We need more migrants.. they are the best workers in Britain.''. The headline, he said, applied ``principally'' to the Poles. ``What I can not accept is the amount of hostility and in some cases hatred towards the Poles. Enough is enough, I say, this has got to stop.''. Zylinski pointed to Polish contributions to Britain including those made by Polish RAF pilots during the Battle of Britain, what he said was a ``wonderful work ethic'' and easy integration into the community. ``We are often more loyal to Britain than many British people I know,'' he said. ``We are very grateful to be here. We would like you to be grateful too. Please stop knocking the Poles. We love this country we would like British to love us too.''
( CNN ) Italians have a saying : ``Too much of something cripples it.''. We're overcrowded with so many frescoed churches, medieval castles and Roman ruins that we simply don't know what to do with them, let alone care for a proper upkeep. We've turned blind to their value and beauty. There are nearly 5,000 ``gems'' scattered across the country, ranging from museums to archaeological areas and monuments. Italy boasts the highest number of UNESCO World Heritage sites in the world -- 50, several of which risk crumbling to the ground due to neglect and lack of public resources. And there are another 42,000 that are at the mercy of mudslides, floods and natural calamities. The UNESCO-listed Basilica of Assisi, where St. Frances' tomb lies, is just the last of a series of national shames. Its frescoed walls by Renaissance masters including Giotto risk falling down and are badly in need of a restyle. In a desperate move the monks have launched a crowdfunding project to raise 500,000 euros. We're talking of one of the biggest pilgrimage sites in the world -- not to mention its artistic value. I remember once an American colleague asking me : ``But what does Italy do with its immense cultural heritage'' ?. Good question. If other nations had half as much of what we boast, they'd make a much better job with it. Paradoxically, if we had just the Coliseum or Venice it would be easier. But we don't and trouble is Italy doesn't know how to exploit this treasure. Take the British Museum's successful exhibition on Pompeii in 2013 : we have the real site in our backyard but the British made the best of it worldwide while the real Pompeii was -- and still is -- making global headlines just because of its frequent collapses. Or, worse, Italy couldn't care less to promote its assets. As a travel writer I have the misfortune of dealing with tourist offices almost on a daily basis and it's a battle : many are reluctant to give information and have no good photos of places. I find myself almost begging them, when it should be the other way round. The true but sad thing is that restyling in Italy is mainly thanks to private funds and sponsors. Crowdfunding has already saved Bologna's San Luca Portico. The Coliseum is getting a makeover thanks to shoe brand Todd's, while a few visionary businessmen are rescuing crumbling villages by turning them into luxury resorts. Yet it's not just a matter of scarce public resources or austerity-driven measures. It's also about not having a sense of artistic and cultural attachment, the care to cherish a country's valuable monuments. And that's because Italians have always lacked a sense of national belonging : Italy, despite its millenary history, is one of the world's most modern states, unified in 1861. Patriot Massimo D'Azeglio once said : ``Now that we've made Italy, we need to make Italians.''. Tough job indeed, and we're still a long way to go. There's also wide-spread approach that tends to limit restyling in general. Heritage authorities are in love with the Romantic ideal ``of decadent ruins'' : better leave the monument or site as it is, even allow it to rot, rather than recover it and ``destroy its original beauty.''. Each time new subway works bring to light an unknown Roman theatre or necropoli, it all freezes - the public works and the artistic upkeep. Preservation is equal to negligence and oblivion. But that's a blind approach. There's so much Italy could do with what it has, that it could live off tourism. Symbola Foundation estimates that culture and art, if well exploited, could generate a turnover of 214 billion euros a year, amounting to 15.3 % of GDP. Another thorny issue is having a cheap culture. Entrance tickets to the Coliseum, Italy's top site that each year lures more than 6 million tourists, cost a maximum of 12 euros. Matera's rock crypts are 5 euros. Not to mention churches featuring Michelangelo's works, which are free to enter. The first time I visited Westminster Abbey in London, and St. Patrick's church in Dublin, I was shocked to find out I had to pay to get in. And it was quite expensive, too. One could argue that Italy does well to open for free the Lord's doors, but probably in some ``critical'' cases a minimum cost to enter wouldn't hurt. The country's mindset needs to change, too. Monuments and works of art are not dead, but living things that deserve to be sexed-up once in a while. If we don't have enough space to showcase all of them or the money for their maintenance, why not give them over to other countries to run ? Or sell them to rich businessmen ?. Similar options make state authorities' hair stand on end : they stress art belongs to the Italian people and should remain in public hands -- even if it's inaccessible and unenjoyable. Yet is it better to have a public ruin or a private, thriving multimedia museum ?. The Uffizi Galleries' secret cellars are stacked with 2,500 forgotten masterpieces, which could be leased out to privates. Curators fear the artworks could get damaged if moved. But cobwebs and dust can do no harm, right ?. Our sunny piazzas, bridges and frescoed castles should be regularly rented out for lavish ceremonies and weddings of billionaires couples or for major company events that would bring millions of euros to cities' coffers. And who cares if for one single evening residents are unable to park their car in front of their palazzo ?. There are also 6,000 abandoned medieval ``ghost towns'' that could be recovered or sold to revamp local economy. The state should also speed up the process of putting up for auction hundreds of artistic sites and historical buildings to privates and international investors who get to run them for 50 years. Since the project launch in 2012 so far just two restyles have worked out, one being a Renaissance villa in Florence turned into a deluxe spa resort. Fine, Rome wasn't built in a day. But it could crumble in an hour.
( CNN ) It's the beer so good the Danes hate to see it leave, or so Carlsberg advertisements used to say. Now, Copenhagen residents can live in a new neighborhood set to emerge on the historic grounds of the famous beer-maker in the heart of Danish capital. The area in question -- aptly named Carlsberg City -- has been home to the famous Carlsberg brewery since 1847, and with it a big slice of Danish cultural history. But the brewery has moved on and the future is moving in. Amidst the district's historic treasure trove of protected architectural buildings will be some 600,000 square meters ( 6.4 million sq ft ) of residential, business, sporting, cultural, and educational space. Prices range from just below Copenhagen's average $ 5,000 per square meter to about $ 12,000 -- well below other major European cities. Modeled after intimate medieval towns, Carlsberg City won ``Best Master Plan'' at the World Architecture Festival in 2009. The project has since attracted interest from all over the world. ``Scandinavia has over the past years been attractive to foreign investors,'' said Claus Lonborg, CEO of Copenhagen Capacity, a non-profit with the aim of growing business in the Danish capital. He added that ``given the number of infrastructure and construction developments taking place in the greater Copenhagen area now, we really see an increasing demand and interest.''. While the first apartments in Carlsberg City went up for sale in March, the area has been alive for years. Investors invited temporary renters into old buildings during the construction phase which began shortly after the 2008 financial crisis hit. The area has since been home to skateboarders, bikers, modern dancers, cafes, the national football team for homeless people and a climbing forest. And the head of Carlsberg City says this ploy has more than paid off. ``The temporary activities have been keeping Carlsberg City on the landmap even in planning,'' said Jens Nyhus, CEO of CarlsbergByen ( Carlsberg City ). ``When the financial crisis started ( they ) were a way to keep the building occupied and from running down. It kept the city alive and opened up.''. But just because new tenants have moved in doesn't mean it's brewing history will be gone completely. Carlsberg will remain very much inside Carlsberg City, making specialty beer and building a tourist center that is expected to attract half-a-million visitors per-year when it opens in 2017. ``We call it Carlsberg brand and experience center,'' said Thomas Kjelfred, communications consultant at Visit Carlsberg.'' ( But ) it's not a brand house, it's a brew house. Until six years ago, we brewed 200 million liters a beer ( here )''. ``To a Dane, Carlsberg is more than a beer. It is art, it is science, it is culture.''. And soon, it will also be a city.
( CNN ) Parts of Miami-Dade County's skyline was hidden from view Monday as smoke from a growing 1,850-acre wildfire loomed over portions of the Florida county. What started as a nonthreatening and seemingly shrinking grass fire on Sunday, consuming fewer than 100 acres according to Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Battalion Chief Al Cruz, grew to be more than 10 times that within the next 24 hours. By Monday night, the fire had burned nearly 2,000 acres and was 50 % contained, the fire department said. High temperatures and gusty winds helped the fire spread, State Forester Jim Karels said. Several fire units and a helicopter with the capacity to drop 400 gallons of water at a time were battling the blaze, Cruz said. ``The Florida Forest Service and Miami-Dade Fire Rescue have worked around the clock to protect Southwest Miami-Dade County,'' Florida Agriculture Commissioner Adam H. Putnam said in a statement. Early Monday night, officials were considering road closures, and one school, Lincoln Marti, was evacuated as a precaution, according to the Fire Department.
( CNN ) At least 21 people were killed during a shipwreck off the northern coast of Haiti, the country's civil protection directorate told CNN on Thursday. A small boat carrying about 50 migrants left from the area of Le Borgne, west of Cap-Haitien, on Wednesday night. It began to sail toward the island of Providenciales in the Turks and Caicos when it was caught in bad weather, civil protection spokesman Joseph Edgar Celestin said. The vessel hit a reef and sank as it tried to return to shore near Le Borgne. Rescuers, most of them volunteers from the town of Le Borgne and surrounding communities, were dispatched to the scene and rescued at least 12 people, Celestin said. The search for survivors is ongoing, Celestin added. So far, 11 victims -- eight men and three women -- have been identified, Celestin said. Haiti's government urged migrants not to board clandestine ships and condemned those organizing these illegal journeys.
( CNN ) South America's Atacama Desert, one of the driest places on Earth, resembles some of the faraway planets monitored by giant telescopes there. The lack of humidity provides optimal conditions to watch the sky and study the origins of the universe. ``It is pure visual silence,'' said photographer Andres Figueroa. ``It is amazing. There is absolutely no humidity, and ( these conditions ) create some striking contrasts.''. There, in that clear, inhospitably arid environment, Figueroa turned his camera lens toward another discussion on cosmology, one rooted in the ancient folklore of the Andean people. Taking along his mobile lighting studio, Figueroa photographed a series of religious festivals that take place every July in the Atacama. In his ``Dancers of the Deserts'' series, Figueroa chronicles these festivals, which attract about 200,000 people to some otherwise quiet mining towns in Chile. ``I have always wanted to see the desert. Even though I am not very religious, I've always been curious about their traditions,'' said Figueroa, who is from the Chilean capital of Santiago. Figueroa worked hard on cataloging and differentiating the ceremonies and their complex rituals -- at times playing the role of an artist, others as an anthropologist -- but he always remained faithful to his love for classic portraiture. ``From an anthropological standpoint, I was interested in documenting all the signs and symbols that appear in each costume and character, all the indigenous and Catholic syncretism,'' he said. ``My lighting studio allowed me to pick up on these details. ``From a portraiture standpoint, I used a formal approach to explain this living culture that is constantly growing and reinventing itself. I asked each character to stop to be photographed, taking them away momentarily from the festival in a more intimate scenario.''. Photographing adobe walls, desert landscapes and the ubiquitous camping sites where pilgrims come to gather, Figueroa said each character is perched in his or her own context. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Bears and devils pose in the desert in striking contrast. These photos highlight the uniqueness of Andean culture, which draws influences from Europe, the Inca and more recently, Chinese traditions. There are endless nuances, not always perceived by the naked eye. ``It is a very special festival. When you see the bears, you see them participating in the different roles, blending in with the ( the devils ),'' Figueroa said. ``And sometimes, you see them as a central figure in a festival of their own. It is amazing, a tradition brought by the Chinese near Peru.''. Figueroa, who befriended many of the musicians and dancers, said it was important to take part in the festival in order to understand its meaning to the community. ``I had to understand the hierarchy and protocols of each group,'' he said. ``As a photographer, it is important to create the conditions for things to happen. You can have it all planned and set up in order for things to naturally take place.''. Figueroa said the desert festivals have a deeper role in a region that struggles with social problems such as drug trafficking and poverty. It is the glue that binds families, and young people heavily invest their time and money to make their costumes and parade with pride. The festivals ``are a form of social protection,'' Figueroa said. ``I felt the presence of love.. their love and effort in communicating with their divinity and holding together as communities.''. Andres Figueroa is a Chilean photographer. You can follow him on Facebook.
( CNN ) The announcement this year of a new, original Dr. Seuss book sent a wave of nostalgic giddiness across Twitter, and months before publication, the number of pre-orders for ``What Pet Should I Get ?'' continues to climb. To keep up with demand, the book's first printing was increased from 500,000 to 1 million copies, Barbara Marcus, president and publisher of Random House Children's Books, said in a news release Monday. ``We were absolutely overjoyed to see the response to `What Pet Should I Get ?' from every corner of the book world -- the bookselling community, media, educators, and readers nationwide,'' Marcus said. The publisher also released to CNN a never-before-seen image from the new volume by Dr. Seuss, aka Theodor Geisel. It features a brother and sister familiar to Seuss fans as they ogle a prim feline in a pet shop window and ponder :. ``We want a pet. We want a pet. What kind of pet. should we get ?''. When ``What Pet Should I Get ?'' debuts July 28, it will be the first new, original Dr. Seuss book since ``Oh, the Places You'll Go !'' in 1990. It features the spirited siblings from the beloved classic ``One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish'' and is believed to have been written between 1958 and 1962. ``Ted loved and had pets himself, as a young boy on up through adulthood, and that makes the wonderful excitement and buzz for this new book all the more special,'' said Susan Brandt, president, licensing and marketing of Dr. Seuss Enterprises. Geisel's widow, Audrey Geisel, found the manuscript and illustrations in their California home soon after her husband died in 1991. The materials were set aside and then rediscovered in 2013. Random House Children's Books said in February that it expects to release additional books from the found materials. It only seems to prove the brother and sister's lesson from ``One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish.''. ``From there to here,. from here to there,. funny things. are everywhere.''
( CNN ) I've been in disaster management long enough to know that there is really no one right way to mark the anniversary of a tragic event. As the Boston Marathon runners begin and, hopefully, finish their exhausting run Monday, the lingering memories of the 2013 marathon blasts will be seen and felt in all sorts of ways. More public safety officials throughout the route, a finish line area that prohibits large bags, National Guard members in full uniform giving some sense of security -- those are the most obvious, visible changes. And there are less obvious ones too. With the luxury of some time and healing, the city has moved on. And that is a blessing. In the midst of that weeklong tragedy -- the bombings, the manhunt, the lockdown and eventual capture or killing of the Tsarnaev brothers -- we thought we knew what was going on. But we were too much in the midst of our own situational awareness, the fog of war. Sometimes it takes years to determine what in fact occurred and to write a narrative that reflects a multitude of voices and opinions. That narrative is just forming, and it's worth going back to highlight some of the more strategic lessons that came out of that week. As a former homeland security adviser for Massachusetts, I was intimately involved with the marathon planning ; as a commentator for CNN, I saw the story evolve during that week. Some of these lessons learned are informed by the luxury of time and hindsight, others by various after-action reports and assessments, and others by the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, in which a jury found him guilty of multiple counts. On Tuesday, the trial's sentencing phase will begin, determining whether he will receive the death penalty. In national security circles, there is often a debate about whether the U.S. judicial system is well equipped for terrorism trials. Terrorism, the argument goes, is different from traditional crimes, and our system of evidence and cross-examination and the promise of counsel are not appropriate to transnational threats. Even if this argument were valid in some context -- where terrorists were picked up on battlegrounds abroad and evidence against them might be difficult to obtain -- the Boston Marathon trial made clear that the system does work. What was amazing about a trial filled with so much emotion is that it was relatively unemotional. Prosecutors presented evidence. Defense attorneys challenged the witnesses. The defendant chose not to testify. A verdict was rendered. Its simplicity not only vindicated the capacity of our constitutional system to handle these cases, but also took the mythology ( maybe even the romanticism ) of terrorism out of the case. It rendered Tsarnaev a common criminal. And that was a statement worth making. Recent reports about the shootout in Watertown that Friday night in 2013 show a disorganized and often unnecessarily dangerous response during the manhunt. It is truly remarkable there were not more significant friendly fire casualties beyond the wounding of Massachusetts Transit Police Officer Richard Donohue as more and more police officials came to the town and failed to fall into place in what should ideally be a very delineated command structure. Maybe it was adrenaline, maybe it was just the nature of the weapons. What is clear -- in Watertown and in so many other police departments -- is that our police officers are not adequately trained for the kind of weapons that they have now. That is a dangerous gap, and too many police departments are failing to address it. We have a notion of ``Boston Strong'' coming from the attacks and the city's response. I never loved the term, mostly because it makes it seem that our ability to bounce back was because we have Puritan stock and a kick-ass attitude. That is only partially true. We risk believing that responses to tragedy are simply a matter of personal reflection and a ``keep calm'' persona. I have come to believe that what united us as a city was based on the competency of the response. The quick decisions to move runners off Boylston Street, the ability of police officers to seal the large crime zone and to utilize the military to do so, the pivot of public health officials from tending to blisters and dehydration to forming makeshift triage centers. It is worth remembering that not a single person of the hundreds who were transported to hospitals died ; the three fatalities occurred at the bombing site only. One part of the response that doesn't get enough mention is the focus on family unification immediately after the attacks. Runners had no access to phones, and often had no identification. Family members of runners often didn't know where their loved ones were on the marathon route. First responders, in particular the Boston police and the Red Cross, focused on getting families back together again by moving runners and spectators to Commonwealth Avenue, a few blocks from the finish line. Once family members know that they are with loved ones, the trauma subsides. They often leave the scene, freeing up space and capacity so that public safety can focus on more immediate needs. Crisis planning must continue to focus on the one aspect that will matter most to those in a disaster : Is my family OK ?. Obviously, there is so much more to learn. Could the bombing have been avoided ? What would have happened if the FBI had shared information it had on the Tsarnaev family with local police ?. What if family and friends had alerted authorities to the growing radicalization of the brothers ? It's ``woulda, coulda, shoulda'' but still essential. One of the reasons it is crucial to go back and draw these lessons isn't simply for blame, but to get better for the next time. Analysis and criticism are necessary to make us stronger and more resilient. But do not believe that we are done learning. Looking back can be risky ; it's often called the ``blinding clarity of hindsight'' because everything looks so obvious in the rearview mirror. But I have no doubt that at future anniversaries, what we know today will be altered and reformed and a new narrative might be written. And maybe the best way to remember today is to commit to a constant willingness to learn from this tragedy in all the years ahead.
Washington ( CNN ) Early Clinton campaign calculations, the favored way for one of her opponents to channel his concerns, a GOP ticket for the generations, and Republican calendar concerns filled our Sunday trip around the ``Inside Politics'' table. 1. Watch the volume as O'Malley uses YouTube to test Clinton pokes. Slowly but clearly, former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley is intensifying his criticism of overwhelming Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton. How aggressive will he get ? Stay tuned -- literally. CNN's Jeff Zeleny says O'Malley enjoys using YouTube videos as a quick way to spread his opinion -- and question moves by Clinton, like her reversal on the question of whether she supports allowing undocumented workers to obtain driver's licenses. ``Every time Hillary Clinton sort of adjusts her positioning from'08 to'16 -- her statement on the drivers' licenses that we discussed and other things -- Martin O'Malley has been releasing a YouTube video showing a speech where he has done something different, so watch for that to continue,'' said Zeleny. ``Those YouTube videos on his channel will be a key part of the race -- the liberals love them.''. 2. The ``Obama Factor'' : Clinton finds a lot to love, and some distance. Hillary Clinton is a big fan of President Obama's health care law, but not so much of a booster when it comes to his presidential leadership style. So reports AP's Lisa Lerer, who was in Iowa this past week for the Clinton campaign rollout, and who analyzes one of the most fascinating balancing acts for the onetime Obama 2008 rival who, of course, went on to serve loyally as his secretary of state. ``She embraced key portions of his legacy -- coming out strong for the health care law, for his push for immigration legislation -- but it wasn't all sunshine and light,'' said Lerer. ``She also took subtle digs at his leadership style -- she said America was on the wrong track -- I can't believe I'm saying this but at times she sounded almost like a Republican.''. 3. In big policy choice, Clinton signals an important campaign focus. In Democratic politics, Kamala is the Harris sister who gets the most national buzz. But Maya Harris is about to play a big role in the question of how Hillary Clinton plots her path to 270 electoral votes. Kamala Harris is the California attorney general and a 2016 Senate candidate, for the seat being vacated by Democrat Barbara Boxer. Maya Harris just signed on for a top policy role in the Clinton campaign -- and CNN's Nia-Malika Henderson reports it is a hiring with a clear message. ``One clue, I think, is Maya Harris,'' said Henderson. ``Her resume is really a liberal's dream. She has worked at the Center for American Progress, ACLU, she's also done work on community policing and police reforming, and she also has a very interesting paper that looks at the importance of women of color to the electorate.''. ``So I think this hire is going to be really interesting in what it means for the kind of policy initiatives that Hillary Clinton rolls out and the sort of appeals she makes to women of color, who are so crucial to getting the Obama coalition back together again.''. 4. Walker-Rubio ? Rubio-Walker ? A general contrast with some GOP buzz. Marco Rubio drew a direct generational contrast with Hillary Clinton when he officially joined the GOP 2106 race, and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker also often talks of his hope Republicans will look for a next-generation leader as their next presidential nominee. In political circles -- meaning among junkies and strategists -- there is constant debate about potential tickets -- at this stage of the process a hypothetical and then some because neither man has been tested on the trail. But Jonathan Martin of The New York Times says his recent travels suggest the talk about a Walker-Rubio pairing is not limited to inside the Beltway chatter. ``They both would offer that kind of generational dynamic in the same way that Clinton and Gore did.. in 1992,'' said Martin. ``But what's interesting is, in New Hampshire over the weekend, I was there for the big cattle call of all the candidates, for the first time from an actual activist -- not an operative but an activist -- I heard somebody float the idea of a Walker-Rubio race in 2016.''. 5. Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and then ?. Heading into the 2016 cycle, the Republican National Committee used its muscle to make some changes to the presidential nominating process, including fewer sanctioned debates and a primary calendar that was less front-loaded. Now, some big GOP establishment figures are worried the changes could help candidates who make the establishment cringe -- especially Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina keep their traditional slots at the front end of the calendar. Florida is usually the next big contest, but it could be eclipsed by -- sports fans will get this -- what is becoming known as the ``SEC primary.''. It is important to note the exact calendar is still a work in progress. But what worries the establishment is the likelihood of a Super Tuesday -- or maybe back-to-back Tuesdays -- in early March that include a number of conservative Southern states : Alabama, Arkansas, Tennessee, Texas, Georgia, maybe Louisiana. The shift is one reason former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee thinks the 2016 environment could be more favorable to him than 2008. Ditto for Rick Santorum. They did well in the South, but it didn't matter much because John McCain and Mitt Romney, respectively, were well on their way to the nomination by the time those bruises were inflicted. Again, there might yet be more changes. But more and more leading establishment figures are grumbling changes designed with the best of intentions might end up hurting their favorites -- people like Jeb Bush or Marco Rubio -- and helping those with strong evangelical connections -- like Huckabee and Cruz.
( CNN ) The parents of the youngest victim of the Boston Marathon bombings are making an emotional, passionate plea to take the death penalty off the table for the man convicted in the case. Last week, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found guilty on all 30 charges he faced related to the bombings at the 2013 race and the dramatic violence that dragged out for days afterward. A look at all of the charges. The sentencing phase begins Tuesday, a day after this year's edition of the landmark race. It is expected to last four weeks. The 13th Juror : Now it gets real. In a front-page opinion piece in The Boston Globe, Bill and Denise Richard wrote about the toll taken on their family after the death of their 8-year-old son, Martin. Their daughter, Jane, also was severely injured. ``Our family has grieved, buried our young son, battled injuries, and endured numerous surgeries -- all while trying to rebuild lives that will never be the same,'' they said in the Globe column titled ``To end the anguish, drop the death penalty.''. ``We sat in the courtroom, day after day, bearing witness to overwhelming evidence that included graphic video and photographs, replicated bombs, and even the clothes our son wore his last day alive.''. They said they understood the ``heinousness and brutality of the crimes committed.''. ``We were there. We lived it. The defendant murdered our 8-year-old son, maimed our 7-year-old daughter, and stole part of our soul.''. But now the Richards are urging the Justice Department to bring the case to a close. ``We are in favor of and would support the Department of Justice in taking the death penalty off the table in exchange for the defendant spending the rest of his life in prison without any possibility of release and waiving all of his rights to appeal,'' they wrote. They go on to say : ``We know that the government has its reasons for seeking the death penalty, but the continued pursuit of that punishment could bring years of appeals and prolong reliving the most painful day of our lives. We hope our two remaining children do not have to grow up with the lingering, painful reminder of what the defendant took from them, which years of appeals would undoubtedly bring.''. Martin Richard and two others were killed and more 200 people wounded when a pair of bombs went off within 12 seconds of each other at the finish line on April 15, 2013. Tsarnaev was convicted last week, while his brother, Tamerlan, was killed in a shootout with police two years ago. The Richards never mention Tsarnaev by name. They stress that they were only speaking for themselves when they argue against the death penalty. ``We believe that now is the time to turn the page, end the anguish, and look toward a better future -- for us, for Boston, and for the country,'' they wrote.
Hong Kong ( CNN ) Phil Rudd, the drummer for legendary hard rock band AC/DC, has pleaded guilty to charges of threatening to kill and possession of drugs in a New Zealand court. Rudd, who previously denied all allegations, made a surprise guilty plea Tuesday before the trial began. The 60-year-old Australian was arrested in November last year after police found methamphetamine and cannabis while executing a search warrant at his home in New Zealand. According to a court summary, Rudd fired several employees because the release of his solo album in August had flopped in the charts. A month later, he called an associate and said he wanted his personal assistant ``taken out.''. He later then called the victim -- his personal assistant -- on the phone and said, ``I'm going to come over and kill you.''. Rudd made several calls to his personal assistant over the following days, but he terminated the calls after realizing it was Rudd on the phone. ``As a result of the threats made by the defendant, the victim was genuinely very fearful of his safety,'' read the summary. The drummer's lawyer, Craig Tuck, told reporters outside the court that the charges were ``essentially just an angry phone call.''. ``I will be seeking to have him discharged without conviction,'' Tuck added in an email to CNN. Rudd could face up to seven years in prison for the charge of threatening to kill. He is currently released on bail until the sentencing hearing on June 26. In November, the court dropped the police charge of ``attempting to procure murder'' after prosecutors decided there wasn't enough evidence.
( CNN ) If I had to describe the U.S.-Iranian relationship in one word it would be ``overmatched.''. We're playing checkers on the Middle East game board and Tehran's playing three-dimensional chess. Iran has no problem reconciling its bad and contradictory behavior while we twist ourselves into knots over our tough choices, all the while convincing ourselves that America's policy on the nuclear issue is on the right track. Iran isn't 10 feet tall in this region, but by making the nuclear issue the be-all and end-all that is supposed to reduce Iran's power, the United States is only making Tehran taller. Consider the following :. The U.S.-Iranian relationship is not symmetrical. It's not as if we both are doing terrible things and are looking for a fair and equitable compromise to stop our respective bad behaviors. Iran is about to try a U.S. citizen and Washington Post reporter and we have made a judgment that even while we protest, we will keep the nuclear issue separated not just from this case but from Iran's serial abuse of human rights, including the behavior of its Shia militias in Iraq. I can only hope there is a carefully orchestrated behind-the-scenes plan to have Iran release Jason Rezaian. If not, we're legitimizing a bad regime and compromising U.S. values and interests in the process by not ensuring that all Americans being held by Iran come out as part of the nuclear deal. America is alienating some of our closest allies because of the Iran deal, and Iran is picking up new ones and bolstering relations with old ones who are growing more dependent because they see Iran's power rising. Our friends aren't perfect, particularly the Saudis and even the Israelis. But we need them precisely because Iran is rising. Sadly, the administration is sending signals that cutting a deal on the nuclear issue takes precedence over their priorities. In the meantime, Iran's allies, Bashar al-Assad's Syria, Hezbollah and now the Houthis -- not proxies, but instruments of convenience -- see what's happening and are willing to play and cooperate even more in the Iranian game. The Russians, too, realize that the nuclear issue gives them cover to sell sophisticated missile defense systems and soon to export even more to gain influence and hard currency. We're losing friends ; Iran is gaining them. And in one of the cruelest ironies, Iran's way back into the global economy is as a result of the very issue that made it such a pariah : the nuclear issue. As the Arab world melts down and lacks a traditional epicenter of strength and power, ( Egypt, Iraq, Syria ), Iran is rising. The argument here is not that Iran is taking over the Middle East. But in its zone of influence, a zone critical to the United States -- Syria, Iraq, the Gulf, Yemen, Lebanon -- it is expanding its influence, not contracting. Washington doesn't play this kind of game well. It is tripping all over itself trying to figure out how to combat ISIS in Syria and yet not empower al-Assad ( no answer ), how to combat ISIS in Iraq without favoring the Shia-dominated government and alienating Iraqi Sunnis ( no answer ) and how to backstop the Saudis in Yemen without enabling them to make matters worse through their airstrikes ( no answer ). Iran has a much easier time managing contradictions. Indeed, it can use the threat of ISIS to keep the Americans away from weakening their ally al-Assad as well as expand its influence in Iraq under the guise of fighting a battle of mutual interest. Battle group naval assets to the Gulf of Aden notwithstanding, the United States is being outfoxed, not outgunned. Don't expect U.S. ships to stop those of Iran. As State Department spokesperson Marie Harf said, ``There are reports about these U.S. ships that have been moved and I want to be very clear just so that no one has the wrong impression. They are not there to intercept Iranian ships. The purpose of moving them is only to ensure that the shipping lanes remain open and safe. I think there was some misreporting and confusion on this. I just want to be very clear that the purpose is not to do anything in terms of those Iranian ships.''. It clearly makes sense to try to use diplomacy as a way to constrain Iran's nuclear program. But we should have no illusions about two things. First, we won't end Teheran's nuclear weapons pretensions, and two, we are and will be enabling its rise in the region because of this nuclear diplomacy, not constraining it. One of the reasons the United States won't strike al-Assad is for fear of emboldening ISIS, but the other is that we don't want a proxy war with Iran in Syria. As the Russians have made clear in their recent S-300 deal, the nuclear negotiations are only making Iran a more acceptable business partner. And the real fruits of the diplomacy haven't even begun yet. Sanctions relief will make the mullahs more secure and give them the resources to buck up, not tamp down, their regional aspirations. We've made our bed, apparently, and now are going to have to find a way to sleep. A nuclear deal will avert a crisis over the nuclear issue for now. But unless it really does change Iran's behavior, we've only bought ourselves a bigger one down the road.
( CNN ) If someone told you that your city had started a program providing clean needles to injecting drug users, would that make you want to start injecting drugs yourself ? The answer, of course, would be no. Yet for decades, many have stood by the belief that such programs, known as syringe exchange or syringe services programs, promote and encourage drug use. Indeed, for Congress, it became the rationale behind a ban implemented in 1988 that prohibits the use of federal funds for these programs. But an overwhelming body of scientific evidence continues to show that this is simply not true. As a result of the recent spikes in HIV and hepatitis C infections among injecting drug users in rural Indiana and Kentucky, the controversial topic of syringe exchange programs has come to the fore again. And this time, scientific evidence and sound public health practices prevailed as both states authorized the implementation of syringe exchange programs to help curb the spread of these two blood-borne diseases that can be spread by contaminated syringes. This is a welcome step -- an estimated 50,000 Americans are newly infected with HIV every year, and some 8 % are among injection drug users. Meanwhile, between 2006 and 2012, at least 30 states experienced increases in hepatitis C infection rates, with more than half reporting at least a 200 % increase in acute infections among young adults. Overall, the prevalence of acute hepatitis C among people under 30 rose from 36 % to 49 % in six years. With such numbers in mind, the recent national spotlight on syringe services programs offers a critical opportunity for us to reignite a much-needed conversation. Dozens of studies have demonstrated conclusively how effective syringe services programs have been in the fight against HIV and hepatitis C transmission among injection drug users by reducing the reuse and sharing of dirty syringes -- without increasing drug use. In addition to helping curb the spread of these diseases by offering access to sterile syringes, these programs promote public health and safety by taking syringes off the streets and protecting law enforcement personnel and others, including children, from injuries. They also offer preventive health services, such as HIV testing and counseling, and form vital bridges to drug treatment, overdose prevention, housing and employment services. For states such as New York and Washington -- early adopters of these interventions -- syringe services programs have played a crucial role in driving down HIV transmission among injecting drug users. Washington was the first state in the United States to implement an syringe exchange when it opened a syringe services program in Tacoma in 1988. In New York City -- where half of all injection drug users were HIV positive in the 1980s -- state lawmakers authorized syringe exchange in 1992 to combat the disease, deeming it a ``public health necessity.'' The expansion of these programs in New York was followed by a dramatic reduction in HIV incidence among injecting drug users, declining from 54 % in 1990 to 13 % in 2001 ; hepatitis C prevalence declined from 90 % to 63 % during this period. Because they work, syringe services programs will likely be an integral part of the statewide plans announced by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Washington Gov. Jay Inslee to reduce new HIV infections dramatically by 2020. Syringe exchange programs not only save lives, but also save millions of dollars in HIV treatment costs. While a clean syringe costs less than 50 cents, the average lifetime cost of treating an HIV-positive person is estimated to be around $ 425,000. As HIV-positive injection drug users report higher levels of unemployment and homelessness, public programs such as Medicaid will ultimately become responsible for the expensive treatment costs. For example, an analysis by Johns Hopkins University researchers showed that expanding the availability of syringe services programs to cover just 10 % of all injections in the United States would prevent almost 500 new HIV infections among drug users per year. This translates into $ 193 million in savings reaped from averted treatment costs after an estimated $ 64 million investment. In other words, every dollar spent on syringe exchange saves between $ 3 and $ 7 in HIV treatment costs alone. Despite such evidence, syringe services programs are continually caught in the political crossfire. A longstanding ban, temporarily lifted in 2009 and then reinstated by Congress as part of 2010 budget negotiations, prevents state and local jurisdictions from spending their federal health dollars on these programs. Lifting the ban will not cost any additional money -- it simply allows states to spend their federally allocated dollars on syringe services programs, if they choose to do so. Why is this important ? The federal government provides the majority of funding for all HIV prevention services. Without access to federal funding, more than 200 syringe service programs in 34 states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico are operating on shoestring budgets from local and state governments. This has forced syringe services programs across the country to cut staff, scale down services and potentially shut their doors for good. Meanwhile, the new HIV and hepatitis C infections among injecting drug users in primarily rural states, such as in Indiana or Kentucky, show that the landscape of injection drug use in America is rapidly changing. We have a chance right now to get ahead of the curve and avert a nationwide resurgence of HIV and hepatitis C infections through injection drug use. It is time for Congress to make sound and effective policy based upon facts rather than discredited assertions or unsubstantiated fears.
( CNN ) Erika Langhart had a zest for life. By the time she finished college she had already visited 37 countries. After graduating from college she was working in Washington and thinking about going to law school. Her life was full of promise, but all that ended suddenly when she was just 24 years old. In Phoenix, Karen Langhart was looking forward to her daughter coming home for Thanksgiving when she received a call from Erika's cell phone. In an interview with CNN, Erika's mom said she ``picked up the phone and answered it, `Hi Schmoo, can't wait to see you' -- Schmoo-bear is our nickname for her -- and it was Sean.''. With groceries in hand, Erika's boyfriend, Sean Coakley, had arrived at her apartment to make dinner and found Erika collapsed on the floor. The fire department and paramedics were already on the scene. The attendant at the front desk had heard Erika screaming for help and called 911. '' -LSB- The paramedics -RSB- tried to revive her with CPR and while they were in the apartment, I think she had a heart attack and then two more on the way to the hospital in the ambulance, and another one in the hospital, and she never woke up,'' Erika's father, Rick Langhart, said. Karen knew it was serious when the emergency room doctor said they needed to come to the hospital in Arlington, Virginia. She said the doctor asked her whether Erika was using any birth control. According to Karen, when she told him Erika was using the NuvaRing,. ``He said well there's a link between NuvaRing and pulmonary embolisms,'' Karen Langhart said. Rick Langhart said doctors removed the NuvaRing immediately. ``It was, it was a nightmare,'' he added. By the time Rick and Karen arrived at the Virginia Hospital Center, Erika was in a coma, in the ICU. ``They had determined that Erika had no brain activity and that because of her heart attacks they basically told us that she was brain dead and that's it,'' Rick Langhart said, fighting back tears. Hospital records cited the NuvaRing as a risk factor for Erika's multiple pulmonary embolisms. Records confirm what Erika's parents told CNN : that a blood clot started in an artery/vein in her right thigh and traveled to her lungs, causing ``massive'' pulmonary embolisms and ``multiple episodes of cardiac arrest'' on the way to the hospital and overnight. The Langharts never heard their daughter's voice again. She died on Thanksgiving. ``We miss her so much,'' Karen Langhart said. Less than a year later, 2,000 miles away in Utah, Megan Henry had the scare of her life. Henry, it turns out, was a classmate of Erika Langhart's at American University. She's training to compete in the Olympics in skeleton, a type of high-speed downhill sledding. The scare that shook her in August 2012 threatened her Olympic dreams. Within weeks of starting the NuvaRing, Henry said she collapsed during training, unable to breathe. ``I mean I was struggling, I was struggling to breathe.'' Henry said. ``It's like an elephant was sitting on my chest all the time.''. After seeing five doctors who were unable to tell her what was wrong, she finally got a diagnosis from a pulmonologist. He told her he thought she had blood clots in her lungs. ``I said, you know I started taking this birth control, is it related to this ?'' Henry said. ``And he was like, yeah, I definitely think that you have blood clots and it's from the birth control.''. X-rays, followed by an ultrasound and a CAT scan, revealed that Megan's life was in danger. '' -LSB- The doctor -RSB- started to tell me, you have multiple pulmonary embolisms in both lungs,'' said Megan. ``They're sending an ambulance, they're going to come and they're going to rush you to the emergency room.. it just really took me by surprise and you know I knew it was something bad but I never imagined it would be something like that.''. According to her hospital discharge papers, the NuvaRing Henry was using ``was probably the risk factor'' for her pulmonary embolisms. Henry went from peak physical condition to using a breathing machine. She was put on blood thinners, too. Her doctors told her it's too risky to use hormonal birth control again. ``Easy. Safe. That's really how it was presented -- easy, safe, low-dose hormone -- you know, and it turns out it wasn't. It wasn't that at all,'' she said. Even though NuvaRing has about the same risk for blood clots as newer birth control pills, Henry said she wishes she had known that the incidence of life-threatening blood clots is double with NuvaRing compared to older birth control pills. ``There are other options out there for birth control that have risks, but not doubling the risks,'' Henry told CNN. ``If I would have known that I never would have taken it.''. And thinking about what happened to her classmate, Erika, Henry said, ``I think if I knew what I know now and, you know, if Erika had known that, a number of people, I think that they would have made a slightly different choice.''. The NuvaRing is one of the most popular birth control products on the market. A flexible ring inserted vaginally, it releases a combination of hormones. By 2010 as many as 830,000 women were using the vaginal ring as a contraceptive method, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit organization advancing sexual and reproductive health worldwide. At least 10.5 million women use hormonal birth control pills. The NuvaRing was approved by the FDA in 2001 and became available to women in the United States in 2002. The Dutch pharmaceutical company, Organon, developed the device and manufactured it until 2007 when the company was sold to Schering Plough Corporation, which was then acquired by Merck in 2009. According to Merck, the NuvaRing is sold in more than 50 countries, and 44 million prescriptions have been filled for women in the United States alone. The NuvaRing dispenses what's called a third-generation progestin, or synthetic hormone. When it first came on the market, the device was touted as a breakthrough -- inserted vaginally to release a ``continuous low dose of hormones.'' It stays in for three weeks, so no bother of taking a daily birth control pill. The ring was branded in a television commercial as ``a different way to do birth control'' and ``Oh ! It's easy to use.''. Convenient ? Absolutely. But safe ? That depends on whom you ask. The Langharts had no idea the NuvaRing birth control their daughter had been using for four years had already been linked to other women's deaths, according to unconfirmed claims of problems reported to the FDA. Merck acknowledges a very small risk of blood clots but stands by its product, saying, ``There is substantial evidence to support the safety and efficacy of NuvaRing.''. While studies have shown that the number of severe adverse events is extremely low -- fewer than 11 cases per 10,000 women who use it for a year -- the families who have lost loved ones point out that the incidence of life-threatening blood clots is double with NuvaRing than with older birth control pills. Since the mid-1990s there have been multiple studies suggesting that while third-generation progestins are generally safe, they are approximately twice as likely to cause blood clots than older, second-generation birth control pills. Merck denied CNN's request for an on-camera interview. Instead, it gave this statement : ``While there is a very small risk of a blood clot when using NuvaRing or any combined hormonal contraceptive, this risk is much less than the risk of blood clots during pregnancy and the immediate post-partum period.''. Among 10,000 women, between five and 20 women run the risk of developing a serious blood clot during pregnancy ; the risk increases to between 40 and 65 women during the 12-week postpartum period. Among 10,000 women in a year using combination hormonal contraceptives -- that includes birth control pills, the ring and the patch -- the risk of developing serious blood clots ranges between three and 12 women. NuvaRing users are on the higher end of that risk. Two studies conducted in 2011 and 2012 reveal the risk of developing a serious blood clot among NuvaRing users is 11.4 and 8.3 per 10,000 women in a year, respectively. The NuvaRing's label was updated in 2013 by the FDA with information about both studies. The Langharts, Megan Henry, and 3,800 others sued Merck. According to claims filed in federal and state courts, the lawsuits allege Organon, the original manufacturer of the NuvaRing, ``failed to adequately warn consumers about a heightened risk of blood clots associated with the use of NuvaRing, even though the manufacturer was aware that NuvaRing posed greater risks than other hormonal contraceptives.''. In February, without admitting any wrongdoing, Merck agreed to pay $ 100 million in damages. But the Langharts did not settle, insisting Merck be held accountable for what the family said was Merck's failure to properly warn users of the risk. They believe what Merck is getting away with is ``criminal.''. ``I don't understand why a company in the United States would allow that kind of product on the market. It's not the way Americans do business,'' Rick Langhart said. ``And for them to do what they do in total disregard for what's going on. It's criminal to me.''. Instead, to honor Erika's memory, they decided to create a nonprofit to inform women of the dangers they believe are related to the NuvaRing and the comparative risks of all forms of hormonal contraceptives. The nonprofit's name, ``Informed Choice for Amerika,'' honors their daughter's name.
( CNN ) Hi-ho, Kermit the Frog has some competition. A newly discovered species of glassfrog looks an awful lot like the famous Muppet. Bulging white eyes, Kelly green skin, the works. But the name's not nearly so catchy as its famous counterpart : Hyalinobatrachium dianae, or Diane's bare-hearted glassfrog. If you have to, you can call it H. dianae for short. Scientists found the species on the Caribbean slopes of Costa Rica. This is big news in the scientific community. The last time a new glassfrog was found in Costa Rica was back in 1973, according to the Costa Rican Amphibian Research Center. ``Costa Rica is known to have 14 glassfrogs inhabiting its tiny national territory !'' the center's Facebook page said. It's called a glassfrog because of its translucent belly. You can see its internal organs from underneath. Miss Piggy wasn't immediately available for comment.
( CNN ) Three Orthodox rabbis accused of planning and participating in the torture of Jewish men who refused to divorce their wives were convicted Tuesday of conspiring to commit kidnapping. Rabbis Mendel Epstein, 69 ; Jay Goldstein, 60 ; and Binyamin Stimler, 39, were found guilty on one count of conspiracy to commit kidnapping in New Jersey federal court. Goldstein and Stimler were also convicted on charges of attempted kidnapping. The rabbis were part of a ring accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars to orchestrate the kidnappings of Jewish husbands to persuade them through torture involving electric cattle prods and screwdrivers to grant ``gets,'' a document that Jewish law requires a husband to present to his wife in order to be issued a divorce, court papers said. The men were arrested in October 2013 following an FBI sting operation that ended with Goldstein, Stimler and six other men with ski masks, surgical blades and a 30-foot nylon rope in a warehouse in Middlesex County, New Jersey. Lawyers for each of the rabbis told CNN they plan on appealing the convictions. ``Rabbi Epstein still firmly believes that he was protecting women's rights and was protecting the agunahs and the families,'' said Robert Stahl, the lawyer for Epstein. Without a ``get,'' a woman is considered an ``agunah,'' a chained woman bound to a man no matter how over the marriage might actually be. An Orthodox Jewish woman who does not receive a get runs the risk of being shunned in her community and labeled an adulteress if she moves on. Any future children she has are considered bastards permitted to marry only other bastards. ``I don't think this was a traditional kidnapping,'' said Aidan O'Connor, the lawyer for Goldstein. Goldstein is a sofer, a Jewish scribe who transcribes the Torah and writes other religious documents, including divorce papers, his attorney said. Nathan Lewin, the attorney for Stimler, called the verdict ``shocking'' and said his client was only present at the warehouse as a witness for the ceremonial signing of the document. ``There's no evidence that Rabbi Stimler knew what was going to be going on,'' Lewin said. ``Of course we're going to take all the steps to correct this injustice.''. Epstein's son, David Epstein, was acquitted on Tuesday of kidnapping charges. The jury returned not guilty verdicts on the attempted kidnapping charges against Mendel Epstein, and on more severe kidnapping charges against the three rabbis. Nine other individuals previously pled guilty in the case to conspiracy charges, according to a press release from the U.S. Attorney's office in New Jersey. Henry Mazurek, the lawyer for David Epstein, said his client was grateful for the jury's decision but called his client's acquittals ``bittersweet'' next to his father's conviction. ``He really believes that ( his father ) was a champion of someone who was voiceless in his religion,'' Mazurek said. Sentencing is set for July 15. The men face up to life in prison.
( CNN ) If one is to believe lawyers for Aaron Hernandez, the former New England Patriots star had no conceivable reason to kill a man who was his friend, his future brother-in-law and a reliable purveyor of the marijuana he chain-smoked. The jury in the high-profile trial resumed deliberations Wednesday after deliberating about an hour-and-a-half on Tuesday. The way defense lawyer James Sultan laid it out for the Massachusetts jury in closing arguments earlier Tuesday, why would a young man with a $ 40 million contract kill semi-pro player Odin Lloyd less than a mile from his own home ?. Why would Hernandez leave a marijuana blunt he shared with the victim at the murder scene ? Did those who Sultan described as inept and biased police officers and prosecutors simply become fixated with the former tight end with a promising future in the National Football League ?. ``If there was evidence of any reason Aaron would have had to murder Odin Loyd, don't you think you would have heard about it in nine weeks ?'' Sultan asked the jury. ``You didn't hear it because it doesn't exist.''. The prosecution, however, portrayed Hernandez as cold, calculating and insecure -- a man who believed others should be grateful for his attention, one capable of murder for merely disrespecting him in the presence of others. Prosecutor William McCauley asked jurors : What was Hernandez talking about a day after Lloyd's bullet-riddled body was found at a Massachusetts industrial park in June 2013 ?'' `My endorsements are gone,''' Hernandez said, according to McCauley said. ``He's not talking about Odin.''. The state's largely circumstantial case wrapped up after the testimony of more than 130 witnesses and the presentation of more than 400 pieces of evidence. On Monday, Hernandez's defense gave its side of the story in less than a day. In closing arguments the next day, Sultan sought to show that prosecutors failed to prove their contention that Hernandez orchestrated the killing without a reasonable doubt. Even if they found a strong likelihood that Hernandez was involved, the lawyer said, ``That's not enough.''. Sultan tried to implicate Hernandez's co-defendants, Ernest Wallace and Carlos Ortiz, who have pleaded not guilty and will be tried separately. The defense described Wallace and Ortiz as a pair of drug dealers known to become crazed while on PCP, as men capable of killing someone in drug-induced fits of rage. They're accused of killing Lloyd. ``Did he make all the right decisions ? No,'' Sultan said of his client. ``He was a 23-year-old kid who witnessed something, committed by somebody he knew. He really didn't know what to do, so he put one foot in front of another. Keep in mind, he's not charged with accessory after the fact.. He's charged with murder.. and that he did not do.''. The prosecution said Wallace and Ortiz were longtime friends of Hernandez, who had complete control of them. McCauley reminded the jury of testimony about Hernandez and his two friends sunbathing poolside hours after the slaying, drinking smoothies, and Hernandez at times leaving his then 8-month-old child with the two men. ``These guys.. will do whatever he wants,'' the prosecutor said of Hernandez. The motive for the killing has never been clearly spelled out, but prosecutors said Lloyd might have done or said something that didn't sit well with Hernandez. They said Hernandez rounded up some friends and orchestrated the killing to settle the score. McCauley said a perceived slight that might seem insignificant to someone -- such as disrespect -- would easily offend Hernandez. Hernandez's fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, testified that Hernandez told her to dispose of a box from the couple's home that she said reeked of marijuana. She also said she didn't know what was in the box. The prosecution has said the murder weapon, which has not been recovered, was in the box. After concealing the box with her daughter's clothing, Jenkins said she threw it away in ``a random dumpster'' but could not remember where. Another piece of the state's case was grainy footage from Hernandez's home security system that prosecutors said showed him holding a.45 - caliber handgun -- the same kind of gun police said was used to kill Lloyd. Hernandez could be seen on camera pulling into his driveway minutes after Lloyd was shot to death in the industrial park, which is about a mile from Hernandez's home. The video is time-stamped minutes after nearby workers described hearing noise they said sounded like fireworks -- the moment prosecutors say Lloyd was gunned down after getting out of a car Hernandez was driving. Hernandez's lawyers showed a different part of the video time-stamped a few seconds earlier with Hernandez holding what appeared to be a shiny object in one hand. They suggested it was an iPad. Evidence collected in Lloyd's death investigation led to two more murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. Hernandez is also accused of shooting Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado, allegedly over a spilled drink at a nightclub. That double shooting took place in July 2012, almost a year before Lloyd was killed. He will be tried in that case after the Lloyd trial. The jury has not heard about the double shooting. CNN's Susan Candiotti and Laura Dolan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) James Best, best known for his portrayal of bumbling sheriff Rosco P. Coltrane on TV's ``The Dukes of Hazzard,'' died Monday after a brief illness. He was 88. Best died in hospice in Hickory, North Carolina, of complications from pneumonia, said Steve Latshaw, a longtime friend and Hollywood colleague. Although he'd been a busy actor for decades in theater and in Hollywood, Best didn't become famous until 1979, when ``The Dukes of Hazzard's'' cornpone charms began beaming into millions of American homes almost every Friday night. For seven seasons, Best's Rosco P. Coltrane chased the moonshine-running Duke boys back and forth across the back roads of fictitious Hazzard County, Georgia, although his ``hot pursuit'' usually ended with him crashing his patrol car. Although Rosco was slow-witted and corrupt, Best gave him a childlike enthusiasm that got laughs and made him endearing. His character became known for his distinctive ``kew-kew-kew'' chuckle and for goofy catchphrases such as ``cuff'em and stuff'em !'' upon making an arrest. Among the most popular shows on TV in the early'80s, ``The Dukes of Hazzard'' ran until 1985 and spawned TV movies, an animated series and video games. Several of Best's ``Hazzard'' co-stars paid tribute to the late actor on social media. ``I laughed and learned more from Jimmie in one hour than from anyone else in a whole year,'' co-star John Schneider, who played Bo Duke, said on Twitter. ``Give Uncle Jesse my love when you see him dear friend.''. ``Jimmy Best was the most constantly creative person I have ever known,'' said Ben Jones, who played mechanic Cooter on the show, in a Facebook post. ``Every minute of his long life was spent acting, writing, producing, painting, teaching, fishing, or involved in another of his life's many passions.''. Born Jewel Guy on July 26, 1926, in Powderly, Kentucky, Best was orphaned at 3 and adopted by Armen and Essa Best, who renamed him James and raised him in rural Indiana. Best served in the Army during World War II before launching his acting career. In the 1950s and 1960s, he accumulated scores of credits, playing a range of colorful supporting characters in such TV shows as ``The Twilight Zone,'' ``Bonanza,'' ``The Andy Griffith Show'' and ``Gunsmoke.'' He later appeared in a handful of Burt Reynolds' movies, including ``Hooper'' and ``The End.''. But Best will always be best known for his ``Hazzard'' role, which lives on in reruns. ``Jimmie was my teacher, mentor, close friend and collaborator for 26 years,'' Latshaw said. ``I directed two of his feature films, including the recent `Return of the Killer Shrews,' a sequel he co-wrote and was quite proud of as he had made the first one more than 50 years earlier.''. People we've lost in 2015. CNN's Stella Chan contributed to this story.
( CNN ) Seven people -- including Illinois State University associate men's basketball coach Torrey Ward and deputy athletic director Aaron Leetch -- died when their small plane crashed while heading back from the NCAA tournament final. The aircraft went down overnight Monday about 2 miles east of the Central Illinois Regional Airport in Bloomington, McLean County Sheriff's Office Sgt. Bill Tate said. That's about 5 miles from the campus of Illinois State, where Ward and Leetch both worked. It was not immediately known who else was on the aircraft, which the National Transportation Safety Board tweeted was a Cessna 414. The plane was coming back from the NCAA Final Four championship game in Indianapolis, according to Illinois State athletics spokesman John Twork. ``The ISU community is reeling from the loss,'' Twork said. The last post from a Twitter account that purportedly belongs to Ward features pictures from Lucas Oil Stadium, where Duke beat Wisconsin in the title game. There's also a picture of a small plane with the words, ``My ride to the game wasn't bad #indy2015f4.''. In a statement, Illinois State University President Larry Dietz remembered Ward and Leetch as ``well-respected and much-loved colleagues in our athletics department'' in the crash near Bloomington. ``Words can not fully express the grief that is felt in the wake of such a tragedy,'' Dietz said. ``We move between shock and profound sadness.''. A standout player at the University of Alabama at Birmingham in his hometown between 1996 and 2000, Ward played professionally in China alongside Yao Ming before getting into coaching. He was part of the staffs at Jacksonsville State University, the University of Mississippi and, for one year, in China before coming to Illinois State as an assistant prior to the 2012 season. He was promoted to associate head coach in May 2014, according to his official bio. Coming from Arkansas State University, Leetch joined ISU in 2005 as an athletic director for development before assuming a number of other roles through 2011, his bio notes. Leetch left the Illinois school to serve as director of athletics at Whitworth University in Spokane, Washington, then came back in June 2013 as ISU's deputy director of athletics. He was in charge of the Redbirds' athletics communications and video production units, and had a hands-on role in its football, men's basketball, golf and baseball programs. Athletic Director Larry Lyons described Leetch as ``a shining star in the business,'' while lauding Ward as ``a talented coach and recruiter'' with a big personality who was loved by fans. ``There is no play in the playbook for times like these,'' Lyons said. ``We will miss Aaron and Torrey deeply, and we will support their families in any way that we can.''. People we've lost in 2015.
( CNN ) Too little, too late. That's the mayor's response to an artist's apology and offer to cover the cost of fixing the ``Scary Lucy'' statue that has put the New York town of Celoron in the spotlight this week. The bronze figure of comedian and area native Lucille Ball has elicited comparisons to a ``Walking Dead'' zombie and inspired the Facebook campaign ``We Love Lucy ! Get Rid of this Statue.'' The sculpture, a gift to the town from its original owners, has been on display since 2009. Artist Dave Poulin has ``had plenty of opportunity to step forward, and our last conversation he wanted $ 8,000 to $ 10,000,'' Celoron Mayor Scott Schrecengost said. ``And then he stated that if we didn't have the funds and we didn't like the statue, we should take it down and put it in storage.''. After the story of the statue caught fire online this weekend, Poulin publicly apologized Monday for his ``most unsettling sculpture'' in a letter to The Hollywood Reporter. ``I take full responsibility for `Scary Lucy,' though by no means was that my intent or did I wish to disparage in any way the memories of the iconic Lucy image,'' Poulin wrote in the letter ( PDF ). ``From the day of its installation, I have shared my disappointment in the final outcome and have always believed it to be by far my most unsettling sculpture, not befitting of Lucy's beauty or my ability as a sculptor.''. Poulin said he has been talking to Celoron officials for several years about removing and redoing the sculpture. It seems that cost has been the chief barrier. ``It puzzles me when an art work is donated to a community, they accept it, and then get angry and insist you redo the art work at your own expense.'' Poulin wrote in the letter. But the recent media attention to the sculpture seems to have changed his mind. ``I am willing to put my time and money into redoing the Lucy sculpture and feel confident after ten years I can do a much better job,'' Poulin wrote. No thanks, Schrecengost said. He said the town is looking for a new sculptor to fix the statue. ``It would be reworked from the shoulders up -- the entire head, neck and shoulders, not just the face,'' Schrecengost said in a news release Tuesday. The town has set up a post office box for donations, which can also be made through Kickstarter. But the controversy may not be over. It seems that nearby Jamestown, New York, also has ties to Lucille Ball's early years and might be interested in its own tribute to the comedic legend. Schrecengost's Tuesday statement referred to an anonymous Facebook campaign that he claims is aimed at raising Jamestown's Lucille Ball profile at the expense of the Celoron statue. ``The best place for a life size statue of Lucy is right where it is now -- in Lucille Ball Memorial Park in her hometown, in the Village of Celoron, NY,'' he said. CNN's Emanuella Grinberg contributed to this story.
( CNN ) When Al-Shabaab gunmen slaughtered 147 people at a college campus in Garissa, Kenya, on Thursday, it was the bloodiest blow Islamist extremists have dealt to the country since the 1998 bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. But it was also yet another pave stone in the long path of violence between Kenya and the Somali militants. To understand Thursday's attack, one must understand this : Kenya and Al-Shabaab are at war. Although al Qaeda was behind the 1998 attack that killed more than 200 people, Al-Shabaab has killed many more Kenyans and is by far the country's most persistent tormenter, according to a University of Maryland study. Their attacks have notched up since 2008. And in October 2011, Kenya Defense Forces invaded Somalia, where Al-Shabaab is based, with the crushing Operation Linda Nchi, Swahili for ``Protect the Country.''. Thus began a bloody vicious cycle, with Al-Shabaab retaliating on Kenyan soil with ever more spectacular mass killings. Here are some of the most heinous attacks on Kenya by the Somali terrorist group. Early Thursday, while many students still slept, at least four gunman burst into a Christian prayer service at Garissa University College, leading into Easter Weekend. They shot students and took hostages, whom they herded across campus. As they encountered students, they separated them into Muslims and Christians. They spared the former, eyewitness Joel Ayora said. They killed the latter. Kenyan special forces moved in at the campus located about 90 miles from Somalia's southern border. They killed four gunman, but not before 147 victims were shot dead. In December, Al-Shabaab militants carried out the same macabre division of captives by religion at a rock quarry not far from the Somali border. They shot Christian workers dead, and spared their Muslim colleagues. Red Cross Workers counted at least 36 bodies dumped into the quarry. It was eye-for-an-eye retaliation, the militants said, for raids Kenyan security forces carried out on mosques intended to weed out extremists. Parallel to Operation Linda Nchi, Kenya has gone after ethnic Somalis within their own borders triggering protest by Human Rights Watch, which has accused the government of ethnic profiling and mistreatment. In a 2011 case, Kenyan authorities reportedly rounded up ethnic Somalis in Garissa and let them sit in the mud, while beating some of them, HRW alleged. Passengers on a bus in Kenya's north were told to recite from the Quran or die in November 2014. Shortly after the bus carrying some 60 people departed Mandera, near Somalia's border, Al-Shabaab gunmen stopped it in a hilly area and barged in. Those who failed to recite verses were gunned down, leaving 28 dead. In its claim of responsibility, Al-Shabaab said the dead were Christians, and their killing was retaliation mosque raids by Kenyans. A day after the attack, Kenyan security forces retaliated with an offensive across the border into Somalia. They claimed to kill 100 Al-Shabaab militants. In July, Al-Shabaab gunmen opened fire on the Lamu coast, a popular tourist region, and at a police station in a neighboring county. They killed 22 people. Last May, tour companies evacuated vacationers from Kenya after the UK and United States issued alerts that there was a high threat of attacks. Before the Garissa massacre, the Westgate Mall attack was the deepest wound Al-Shabaab had inflicted on Kenya. For four days, four attackers turned the luxury shopping mall in the capital Nairobi into a cauldron of blood, smoke and rubble. Part of the mall collapsed as Kenyan security forces fought for control. At least 61 civilians were killed, as well as a handful of security officers. Al-Shabaab said the attack was retaliation for Kenya participation in Africa Union military operations in Somalia. Even with Al-Shabaab's shooting in Garissa, al Qaeda's bombing of the U.S. Embassy in 1998 remains the single bloodiest Islamist terror attack on Kenyan soil. In short succession, bombs detonated at U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania back then. The Nairobi bombing was much deadlier that the explosion at Dar es Salaam. Al Qaeda founding member Mamdouh Mahmud Salim was arrested and accused in the bombing and is being held in a New York jail, where he still awaits trial. He is serving a 32 year sentence after being convicted of stabbing a prison guard there in the eye.
Sanaa, Yemen ( CNN ) Al Qaeda fighters attacked a prison in the coastal Yemeni city of Al Mukallah early Thursday, freeing at least 270 prisoners, a third of whom have al Qaeda links, a senior Defense Ministry official has told CNN. Khaled Batarfi, a senior al Qaeda figure, was among the escapees, officials said. Dozens of attackers took control of government buildings, including the city's Central Prison, Central Bank and radio station during the assault early Thursday, according to officials. Government troops arrived early Thursday and clashed with the al Qaeda fighters, and most of the militants fled, the officials said. Last month, hundreds of inmates escaped from Al Mansoorah Central Prison in Aden after clashes between Shiite Houthi rebels and forces loyal to ousted Sunni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi. Yemen has been descending into chaos in the weeks since Shiite Houthi rebels removed Hadi, a Sunni, from power. The sectarian nature of the conflict is drawing in regional rivals Saudi Arabia, which is predominately Sunni -- and is the country to which Hadi ultimately fled -- and Iran, which is predominately Shiite and supports the Houthi rebels. Because of that, the conflict in Yemen risks becoming a proxy war in the struggle between the Iranians and the Saudis for preeminence in the Middle East. The Saudis have conducted airstrikes against the Houthi rebels and could send in ground troops. But little is simple in the Middle East. And while the conflict between the Houthis and forces loyal to Hadi rages in the western part of the country, where it has caused hundreds of civilian deaths, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP, controls parts of eastern Yemen. AQAP is considered one of the most ruthless branches of the terrorist organization.
( CNN ) The Force is strong in Turkey -- or at least it appears to be at one university where thousands of students are petitioning for a Jedi temple to be built on campus. The petition, which was started by a student at Dokuz Eylul University in the western province of Izmir, so far has almost 5,500 signatures. ``There are less and less Jedi left on the Earth,'' the petition says. It adds that ``uneducated Padawan'' -- the novice Jedis in George Lucas' ``Star Wars'' film franchise -- ``are moving to the dark side.. To find the balance in the Force, we want a Jedi temple.''. The page on Change.org also features a still of Jedi Grand Master Yoda from ``Star Wars : Episode II -- Attack of the Clones'' teaching young Jedis how to use a light saber. ``I'm signing because the nearest temple ( is ) billions of light years away,'' one supporter wrote on the petition page. Another supporter wrote : ``We want freedom of worship. There are mosques everywhere, but no Jedi temple !''. The petition was started by Akin Cagatay Caliskan, an 18-year-old computer science student from Ankara. Caliskan says he is surprised by the impact his petition has made : ``I did not expect so many supporters. I thought maybe it might ( have ) 100.''. The satirical document does have a serious side. An online debate started last month when Mehmet Karaca, the rector of Istanbul Technical University, said he would build a mosque on campus if there was enough support. Karaca was referencing another petition asking a mosque be built on campus, which almost 200,000 students signed. Twenty thousand students at ITU also signed a separate petition in response, demanding a Buddhist temple on campus. ``I can not fulfill my religious needs'' and can not afford ``to go to the nearest Buddhist temple 2,000 miles away,'' Utku Gurcag Boratac from Istanbul wrote as her reason for signing. ``I want to fulfill my religious needs on campus,'' said another. This is just the latest flurry in a longstanding discussion around civil and religious freedoms in the secular republic. Turkey's secularist opposition has accused Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his party, the Islamist-based Justice and Development Party, of trying to instill conservative Islamic values into everyday life. Late last year, the head of Turkey's Islamic religious affairs authority, the Diyanet, announced plans to build 80 mosques on university campuses across the country. The Diyanet sparked discussion a few months earlier by opening a mosque on the campus of Erzurum Ataturk University in the eastern province of Erzurum, according to Turkish daily newspaper Hurriyet.
( Rolling Stone ) One summer a few years ago, Frances Bean Cobain worked as an intern in the New York offices of Rolling Stone. Frances -- the daughter of Nirvana singer-guitarist Kurt Cobain and an executive producer of the new HBO documentary on his life, ``Kurt Cobain : Montage of Heck'' -- was ``a 15-year-old Goth kid, so stoked,'' she recalls with a laugh during a recent interview for the cover story in our new issue. She remembers providing research assistance on a cover about the Jonas Brothers -- and working in a cubicle across from a wall with a giant painting of Kurt. ``Yeah,'' Frances says with a grin and mock-exasperation, ``looking at my dad every day.'' ( Preview the cover story and listen to a previously unheard Cobain song here. ). That is one of many stories and revelations that come out over almost three hours late one afternoon in early March, as Frances, now 22 and a visual artist, speaks publicly for the first time about her father ; life after his death ; her complex relationship with her mother, Courtney Love ; and the new film, written, directed and produced by Brett Morgen. ``Kurt got to the point where he eventually had to sacrifice every bit of who he was to his art, because the world demanded it of him,'' Frances says bluntly at one point. ``I think that was one of the main triggers as to why he felt he didn't want to be here and everyone would be happier without him.''. Rolling Stone : Listen to a previously unheard Kurt Cobain song. But ``in reality, if he had lived,'' she goes on, ``I would have had a dad. And that would have been an incredible experience.''. What follows are additional excerpts from a remarkable -- and moving -- conversation. How would you describe ``Montage of Heck'' ?. It's emotional journalism. It's the closest thing to having Kurt tell his own story in his own words -- by his own aesthetic, his own perception of the world. It paints a portrait of a man attempting to cope with being a human. When Brett and I first met, I was very specific about what I wanted to see, how I wanted Kurt to be represented. I told him, ``I don't want the mythology of Kurt or the romanticism.'' Even though Kurt died in the most horrific way possible, there is this mythology and romanticism that surrounds him, because he's 27 forever. The shelf life of an artist or musician isn't particularly long. Kurt has gotten to icon status because he will never age. He will always be that relevant in that time and always be beautiful. Rolling Stone : 17 Young Innovators Shaking Up the Music Industry. There is, with any great artist, a little manic-ness and insanity. ``Tropic of Cancer'' is one of my favorite books. And -LSB- author -RSB- Henry Miller had this work ethic, where he would get out of bed every day and force himself to write five pages. It taught me that if you do the work, you progress. So many people are content to settle. My dad was exceptionally ambitious. But he had a lot thrown on him, exceeding his ambition. He wanted his band to be successful. But he didn't want to be the f ------ voice of a generation. Do you remember the first time you heard a Nirvana record -- and knowing that was your father ? I've talked to Sean Lennon about this. He had a few more years with his dad that you did. But for him, the records were a road into understanding his father after he was gone. I don't really like Nirvana that much -LSB- grins -RSB-. Sorry, promotional people, Universal. I'm more into Mercury Rev, Oasis, Brian Jonestown Massacre -LSB- laughs -RSB-. The grunge scene is not what I'm interested in. But ``Territorial Pissings'' -LSB- on Nevermind -RSB- is a f ------ great song. And ``Dumb'' -LSB- on In Utero -RSB- -- I cry every time I hear that song. It's a stripped-down version of Kurt's perception of himself -- of himself on drugs, off drugs, feeling inadequate to be titled the voice of a generation. Rolling Stone : Elton John, Michael Stipe defend transgender prisoners' rights. The irony is that he wrote it before Nirvana made Nevermind. I know. It was projection, to something. There's no way anyone can wrap their minds around that. Did you feel awkward as a teenager, not being that interested in the music Kurt made ?. No. I would have felt more awkward if I'd been a fan. I was around 15 when I realized he was inescapable. Even if I was in a car and had the radio on, there's my dad. He's larger than life, and our culture is obsessed with dead musicians. We love to put them on a pedestal. If Kurt had just been another guy who abandoned his family in the most awful way possible.. But he wasn't. He inspired people to put him on a pedestal, to become St. Kurt. He became even bigger after he died than he was when he was alive. You don't think it could have gotten any bigger. But it did. After the first screening I attended, there was a guy who said ``Montage of Heck'' was a very interesting film about people he didn't like. -LSB- Laughs -RSB- That's a pretty good description. Rolling Stone : A guide to Cobain's cinematic legacy. I found it interesting that the way Morgen told Kurt's story didn't evoke any sympathy for that viewer -- that Kurt's art did not resonate with him. All he saw was a personalty he didn't like. That is an interesting perspective. For me, the film provided a lot more factual information about my father -- not just tall tales that were misconstrued, misremembered, rehashed, retold 10 different ways. It was factual evidence of who my father was as a child, as a teenager, as a man, as a husband, as an artist. It explored every single aspect of who he was as a human being. What was it like hearing his voice ?. I've been hearing his voice forever, through his music. I was thinking more of his speaking voice. His speaking voice is sort of similar to mine. It's sort of a monotone. The depth to it is similar to the way I speak. I don't know what the f -- that is. I wasn't even talking when he was around. Don't mistake the power of genes. It's very weird how genes are. Dave -LSB- Grohl -RSB-, Krist -LSB- Novoselic -RSB- and Pat -LSB- Smear -RSB- came over to a house where I was living. It was the first time -LSB- the ex-Nirvana members -RSB- had been together in a long time. And they had what I call the ``K. C. Jeebies,'' which is when they see me, they see Kurt. They look at me, and you can see they're looking at a ghost. They were all getting the K. C. Jeebies hardcore. Dave said, ``She is so much like Kurt.'' They were all talking amongst themselves, rehashing old stories I'd heard a million times. I was sitting in a chair, chain-smoking, looking down like this -LSB- affects total boredom -RSB-. And they went, ``You are doing exactly what your father would have done.''. But I was glad they came over -LSB- smiles -RSB-. It was a cool experience, like having a Nirvana reunion minus one. Except for his spawn. What do you want to do next, now that this film is coming out ? In being one of the executive producers, you're stepping into the public at almost the same age your father was when he made Nirvana's first album. The timing is.. I like to think of it as poetic. Coincidental, yeah. Oddly enough, being 22, it's the first year a fire has been lit under my ass -- not because of the documentary, just personally. I have this motivation and ambition that I didn't have before : ``I want to go paint this painting.'' The hardest part of doing anything creatively is just getting up and doing. Once I get out of bed and get into my art room, I start painting. I'm there. And I'm doing it. Copyright © 2015 Rolling Stone.
( CNN ) UNICEF said Friday that an initial shipment of 16 tons of medical supplies, meant to help 80,000 innocents caught up in the havoc of Yemen, had at last landed in Yemen's capital, Sanaa. The conflict is exacting a heavy toll on children and families, UNICEF said in a statement. ``The humanitarian situation is worsening all the time, with increasingly limited access to water, basic sanitation and critical health services,'' the statement quoted UNICEF Yemen representative Julien Harneis, speaking from Amman, Jordan, as saying. ``The supplies we have managed to bring in today can make the difference between life and death for children and their families -- but we know they are not enough, and we are planning more of these airlifts.''. Aid agencies have been saying that supplies were desperately needed, but getting them into the country in the midst of regional turmoil was difficult. UNICEF said its cargo included antibiotics, bandages, syringes, IV sets and other medical supplies. Included as well, the agency said, were micronutrients for up to 20,000 children and water storage materials airlifted through Djibouti from UNICEF's supply center in Denmark. Also Friday, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said that about 900 refugees from Yemen have arrived in the Horn of Africa. Many more are reportedly trying to make the trip but are hampered by fuel shortages and high fees by boat operators. ``UNHCR is extremely concerned about the dangers for anyone trying to flee across the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, where there are no search and rescue operations,'' the agency said in a statement. ``Last year, 246 lives were reported lost in sea crossings to Yemen. UNHCR appeals to all ships in the area to be extra vigilant and assist any boats in distress. We also ask that countries with vessels in waters near Yemen -- including surveillance and anti-piracy vessels -- instruct their ships to help with rescues.''. It said that, as demand increases, the boats attempting the dangerous crossing are likely to become more crowded -- a crossing that has historically been made in the other direction, by people fleeing Africa in favor of Yemen. Many Yemenis are attempting the trip in rickety fishing boats. One family told CNN the crossing was ``a window into hell.''. And underscoring the increasing toll being exacted by the conflict in Yemen, the World Health Organization said Friday that at least 643 people have been killed in the country since the fighting escalated three weeks ago. But it acknowledged that the number was almost certainly an underestimate. ``As of 6 April 2015 there have been a total of 643 deaths and 2,226 injuries,'' the WHO, the health arm of the United Nations, said in a statement. ``Casualty estimates are likely to change in the coming days as additional cases are verified and reported.''. The figures cover the period from March 19 to April 6. They include, however, only deaths and injuries verified by a health facility. Other deaths and injuries have undoubtedly occurred. Security in the country, which is on the Arabian Peninsula, deteriorated sharply last month when Houthi rebels advanced on Sanaa and the port city of Aden, forcing President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi to flee the country. Since then, Saudi Arabia has launched airstrikes meant to halt the advance of the Houthis. In at least one case, according to Houthi sources, one of those strikes hit a school.
( CNN ) Canadian fighter jets have carried out their first airstrike against ISIS in Syria, hitting one of the Sunni militant group's garrisons. The CF-18 Hornets bombed near ISIS' de facto capital of Raqqa, Canada's Department of National Defence said Wednesday. It described the strike as successful. Canadian forces are part of the U.S.-led coalition trying to stem the extremist group's bloody advances in Iraq and Syria. Canadian warplanes have conducted dozens of strikes against ISIS targets in Iraq since November. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced plans last month to expand the airstrikes into Syria. ``This first airstrike under the expanded mandate demonstrates our government's firm resolve to tackle the threat of terrorism against Canada and to promote international security and stability,'' Defense Minister Jason Kenney said in a statement. ``ISIL is a genocidal terrorist organization and we will deny them safe haven in the region,'' he said, using an alternative acronym for the militant group, which refers to itself as the Islamic State. The Canadian aircraft and their crews safely returned to base, the military said. It wasn't immediately clear how many casualties the airstrike had caused. U.S. warplanes have been bombing ISIS positions in Iraq since August and in Syria since September. Other Western and Middle East nations are taking part in the campaign, either through direct military actions or by providing support. ISIS, whose influence has spread far beyond the borders of Iraq and Syria, has imposed its harsh interpretation on Islam on the areas it has seized, killing thousands of people and persecuting minorities. CNN's Tina Burnside contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Officer Michael Slager's five-year career with the North Charleston Police Department in South Carolina ended after he resorted to deadly force following a routine traffic stop. Slager, 33, has been fired, officials said Wednesday. His wife is eight months' pregnant and the city will continue paying for her medical insurance until the baby is born, North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey told reporters. He also has two stepchildren. His mother was interviewed by ABC News on Thursday. She told ABC her son loved being a police officer. ``I can't imagine him doing something that.. It's not like him. That's just not his character,'' Karen Sharpe said. She told ABC she hasn't watched the video of the shooting. Slager initially told investigators that he used a Taser in a confrontation Saturday with Walter Scott, who was pulled over for a busted taillight. But Scott went for the Taser, according to Slager. A widely circulated video of the shooting death of the 50-year-old unarmed African-American man by the white police officer tells another story : Scott attempts to run. His back is to Slager, who, from a few yards away, raises his gun and fires. Slager is now charged with murder. The FBI is involved in the investigation of the slaying of the father of four. ``Shots fired and the subject is down,'' Slager said moments after the shooting, according to reports. ``He took my Taser.''. Slager was proficient with the nonlethal Taser. According to personnel records, he scored 50 out of 50 on a Taser certification exam in 2011. Before the officer starts firing at Scott, the video shows a dark object falling behind him and hitting the ground. It's not clear whether that is the Taser. Later in the video, when Slager approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man. Again, it's not clear whether that's the Taser. It's unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body. Slager was named in a police complaint in 2013 after he allegedly ``tased a man for no reason'' before slamming him to the ground and dragging him, according to the North Charleston Police Department. At the time, Slager was searching for a suspect who was described as being 5-feet-5-inches tall. The African-American man he confronted was 6-feet-3 inches tall. A lawyer for the man who filed the complaint, Mario Givens, said his client plans to file a lawsuit. ``The citizens of North Charleston shouldn't have to live in the fear,'' the lawyer, Eduardo Curry, told reporters Thursday. Givens said Slager came to his door, ordered him out of the house and then tased him. ``It was painful,'' he said. ``I fell. I have a couple bruises.''. Slager was later cleared in that incident. ``I was upset,'' Givens said. ``They took a real long time to even investigate the case.''. In another complaint in January, Slager was cited for failing to file a report after an African-American woman called police because her children were being harassed. Slager had worked as a waiter before joining the military, records show. He served in the U.S. Coast Guard from 2003 to 2009, according to a job application filed with the North Charleston Police Department. That application, filed in January 2009, said Slager had not been convicted of a felony in the past seven years. Personnel documents describe Slager as ``enthused'' when he joined the force and said he demonstrated ``great officer safety tactics'' in dealing with suspects. South Carolina senators, governor condemn police shooting. Slager's annual in-service mandatory training included a range of topics from first aid to firearms and Taser use. Slager passed his certifications. In August, Slager passed a firearms qualification. From 2009 to 2014, Slager qualified in the use of his Glock firearm. He received and passed yearly training in ``bias based profiling'' and ``ethics,'' the documents said. He also was certified by the S.C. Criminal Justice Academy in March 2013 as having ``met and successfully completed the in-service requirements'' as a law enforcement officer. Slager completed a separate 10-hour ``active shooter incident response training'' course in December 2013. According to the documents, Slager was involved in a ``nonpreventable'' traffic accident last year when a motorist with his car in reverse struck the officer's patrol car. The driver fled the scene. Since graduating from the police academy in 2010, a supervisor twice noted in training reports that he ``spoke with ( Slager ) in reference to certain procedures in reference to conducting motor vehicle stops and citizen contacts.'' No other details were provided. Slager signed his oath of office with the police force on March 1, 2010, pledging to ``faithfully serve the citizens of this city'' and ``never abuse my authority either by words or acts.''. ``I will enforce the law courteously and appropriately without fear or favor, malice or ill will, never employing unnecessary force or violence,'' the oath said. Who was Walter Scott ?. CNN's John Newsome contributed to this report.
( CNN ) About a quarter of a million Australian homes and businesses have no power after a ``once in a decade'' storm battered Sydney and nearby areas. About 4,500 people have been isolated by flood waters as ``the roads are cut off and we won't be able to reach them for a few days,'' Michael Langley, spokesman for the New South Wales State Emergency Service said. Devastating winds lashed cars and homes. The storm system also brought destructive flooding that washed away houses and brought down trees onto streets and buildings. The emergency services have been slammed with 13,000 calls for help due to flooding and have carried out 144 rescue tasks. The powerful storm has already claimed four lives, according to New South Wales Police. The dangerous conditions have prompted the police department to issue pleas on social media for people to not attempt driving through flooded areas. The heavy flooding prompted school and college closures and disruptions to public transportation. The adverse weather was caused by an intense low pressure system, said Australia's Bureau of Meteorology. The strongest wind gusts peaked at 135 km/h ( 85 mph ) and it was estimated that about 200 millimeters ( 7.87 inches ) of rainfall fell in the area on Tuesday. Transport NSW, which provides public transportation throughout the New South Wales area, issued a warning that many public services across the region have been disrupted because of the weather. It also posted a video on its Facebook page showing CCTV footage of a flood waters rising in a train station. Samantha Mancuso was driving in her neighborhood of Liverpool, a suburb in Sydney on Wednesday, when she noticed gallons of water pouring into the streets. She said Joe Broad Reserve, a nearby park, was flooded. The severe weather caused a local creek to break its banks and now the flooding is seeping into the neighborhood. Water levels at the park reached 2.6 meters ( 8.5 feet ) earlier in the morning, but have slightly receded, she said.
( CNN ) A sexual harassment complaint has been filed against New Zealand Prime Minister John Key after a waitress complained about him repeatedly pulling her ponytail at an Auckland cafe. CNN affiliate TVNZ reported that the complaint was filed Thursday morning by Graham McCready, an accountant described in the New Zealand press as a ``serial litigant,'' who has previously launched private prosecutions against Key. McCready's complaint claimed that Key had breached a section of the country's Human Rights Act relating to sexual harassment, TVNZ reported. It reported that he was seeking considerable compensation for the waitress, 26-year-old Amanda Bailey, and ``if she does not want it I ask for the money be given to Women's Refuge.''. Key publicly apologized to Bailey, a waitress at his local cafe, for repeatedly tugging on her ponytail, after she complained about his behavior in a blog post. The post, published on New Zealand political website The Daily Blog, says that the odd behavior began during last year's election season. It was ``hardly an acceptable form of greeting,'' Bailey wrote. She wrote that while she didn't directly make her objections clear verbally, her body language ``screamed' I don't like that.'''. ``As he approached me, he thought it would be fitting to raise his hands high and make scary, suspense sound effects, like the music from the movie `Jaws','' read the post. ``As he towered overhead I slunk down, cringing, whilst ( Key's wife ) Bronagh told him to `Leave the poor girl alone.'''. The behavior carried on for a number of months and on several occasions, the post states. Eventually the cafe's manager made it clear to Key that his actions were unwelcome. Key, who regularly visits the Auckland cafe with his wife, told reporters that his behavior was in the context of ``a bit of banter,'' but said that he had apologized when it was clear she had taken offense. The blog post says that the prime minister offered the offended waitress two bottles of his own JK 2012 Pinot Noir wine by way of apology. ``We have lots of fun and games there, there's always lots of practical jokes and things. It's a very warm and friendly relationship,'' he told reporters in Los Angeles en route to ANZAC day commemorations in Gallipoli, Turkey. ``But if you look at it now, no. When I realized she took offense by that I just sort of immediately went back, gave her some wine, apologized and said I was terribly sorry.''. Politicians and public figures also rounded on Key, with Green MP Metiria Turei saying that the prime minister should be held to the same standards of behavior as the rest of the electorate. ``A lot of New Zealanders know what it's like to feel as if you're not taken seriously in a job. As politicians, our job is to make people feel safe at work, not bullied,'' New Zealand media reported her as saying. ``It's a sign of how out of touch John Key has become when he can't even monitor how inappropriate his personal behavior is, and when people are not comfortable with how he is behaving.''. Jackie Blue, head of the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission, echoed the sentiment. ``It's never OK to touch someone without their permission,'' TVNZ reported her as saying. ``There are no exceptions.''. Political analyst Bryce Edwards told the network that the ``strangeness factor'' of the accusation would haunt Key. ``A lot of people will be laughing at John Key, that's harder to recover from,'' he said in a segment. The National Council of Women of New Zealand, while accepting that Key was joking and did not mean to offend, criticized the premier. ``The fact that our Prime Minister has joined the list of people outed for sexism highlights how much sexism is a part of our culture. And it starts at the top,'' the organization's chief executive Sue McCabe wrote in an open letter. ``Up and down this country, day after day, people are touched without giving their consent. At one end of the scale, it is an unwelcome pull on a ponytail. At the other end, it's our shocking levels of violence against women.''
( CNN ) ``Success Kid'' is likely the Internet's most famous baby. You've seen him in dozens of memes, fist clenched in a determined look of persevering despite the odds. Success Kid -- now an 8-year-old named Sammy Griner -- needs a little bit of that mojo to rub off on his family. His dad, Justin, needs a kidney transplant. About a week ago, Laney Griner, Justin's wife and Sammy's mother, created a GoFundMe campaign with a goal of $ 75,000 to help cover the medical expenses that go along with a kidney transplant. The campaign is already a success. By Wednesday it had topped its goal. Griner told The Daily Dot that her husband was diagnosed with kidney disease in 2006 and suffered complete kidney failure three years later. ``One can only survive with no natural kidney function.. for so long,'' Laney Griner said. ``His energy and mood are affected ; he can no longer work, and he spends 12 hours a week in dialysis clinic. ``Having been on dialysis for this long greatly increases his risks of developing further complications. The only way to save his life is to get a transplant. There's no other way around that,'' she said. The family doesn't know when a kidney might become available. Their GoFundMe page has a link for potential donors. Sammy's Internet fame began in 2007 when his mom posted a picture of him on a beach with a fist full of sand and a satisfied look on his face. Myspace picked it up, so did Reddit. The rest is Internet history. Success just seems to run in some families.
( CNN ) Five young men were arrested Saturday in Melbourne, Australia, in what police called a major counterterrorism operation. Three of the teens, all of them either 18 or 19, have since been released ``pending further enquiries,'' Australia's Federal Police said, but two remain in custody. Sevdet Besim, 18, has been charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist act, and was denied bail Saturday. The other suspect, a 19-year-old, has not yet appeared in court. ``Some evidence that we have collected at a couple of the scenes and some other information we have leads us to believe that this particular matter was ISIS-inspired,'' said Neil Gaughan, acting deputy commissioner of the Australian Federal Police. The suspects planned to attack during a major national commemoration in a week, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Saturday. ``The act that we believe was in preparation involved attacks against police officers,'' he said. There was also a risk to the public, police said. Police said the suspects were targeting a ceremony on Anzac Day ( Australia and New Zealand Army Corps Day ), which is April 25 and this year is the centennial of the Gallipoli Campaign in World War I. Abbott avoided the term ISIS -- or Islamic State -- to call out those who authorities believed influenced the suspects. He instead referred to the group as the ``Daesh death cult,'' employing the acronym that is transliterated from the group's name in Arabic. It's a handle ISIS is known to loathe. Police also distanced the suspects from any ethnic connection. The men ``are individuals acting by themselves. They are not representatives of any religious, cultural or national group,'' Victoria Police Acting Deputy Commissioner Shane Patton said. ``I think the entire Australian community should be concerned about the young age of those particular men,'' Gaughan said. ``And this is an issue not just with law enforcement, but for the broader community.. We need to get better in relation to identifying young men and woman involved in this type of behavior, at the very early stage.''. The suspects were associates of 18-year-old Nadun Haider, who was killed while stabbing officers at a police station in September, police said. Abbott lamented a string of extremist attacks on Australian soil. In December, Australian authorities stormed a Sydney chocolate cafe where a self-styled Muslim cleric had been holding hostages, killing the gunman. Two of the 17 hostages initially held by the gunman died. In February, two men were charged with plotting terror activities in Sydney. Despite distancing the suspects from religion, Abbott did make a connection to the Middle East. ``There are now about a hundred Australians who are fighting with terrorists in the Middle East,'' and another 150 people in Australia support them with funds and recruiting, the Prime Minister said. In February, Abbott announced tougher citizenship laws as a part of the government's new counterterrorism strategy. Authorities have suspended Australian passports of those they suspect of terrorist activity. Australians should be stoic about the threat of terrorism, Abbott said Saturday. ``The best thing you can do in the face of those who would do us harm is live your life normally.''. He asked Australians to turn out in droves on Anzac Day. Police said this particular threat had been fully contained.
( CNN ) Did former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez kill Odin Lloyd, a man who was dating the sister of Hernandez's fiancee and might have become his future brother-in-law ?. Hernandez has pleaded not guilty to murder and two weapons charges, setting the stage for his trial in Fall River, Massachusetts, that began in January. He's accused of orchestrating the shooting death of Lloyd. During closing arguments, Prosecutor William McCauley called the football player the trigger man. Jury deliberations began Tuesday. Even after closing arguments, the motive is still unclear but not legally required to get a conviction. Still, jurors like to know a motive. Evidence collected in Lloyd's death led to two more murder charges against Hernandez in a separate case in Boston. It's scheduled to begin in May, but officials say it will be pushed back. The trial has involved a complicated cast of characters, including two sisters who played important roles in the lives of Hernandez and Lloyd. Here is a primer :. Inside the case against Aaron Hernandez. Odin Lloyd. Odin Lloyd was a 27-year-old semi-pro football player for the Boston Bandits. He was found dead on June 17, 2013, less than a mile from Hernandez's home in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. He had been shot six times. Lloyd met Hernandez while dating Shaneah Jenkins, the sister of Hernandez's fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins. Hernandez is charged with orchestrating Lloyd's execution. Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado. Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado were killed outside a Boston nightclub on July 16, 2012. Earlier that evening, prosecutors say, de Abreu accidentally bumped into Hernandez, spilling a drink. Later that night, Hernandez was driving an SUV and allegedly pulled up alongside de Abreu and Furtado's car near the nightclub and fired a.38 - caliber revolver at them, killing them. The trial judge in the Lloyd case barred any mention of the Boston deaths, ruling it would be prejudicial. Alexander Bradley. Authorities say Alexander Bradley is Hernandez's former right hand man who was allegedly with Hernandez on the night de Abreu and Furtado were killed. He is not facing any charges in that case, but he is jailed on unrelated charges. He is suing Hernandez for allegedly shooting him in the face in February 2013, four months before Lloyd's death. Bradley says Hernandez accused him of ``disrespecting him'' over a cell phone left in a Miami strip club. Bradley testified against Hernandez in Lloyd's death, telling jurors he saw Hernandez handling what appeared to be a Glock semi-automatic pistol during a trip to Florida. The trial barred him from saying he accused Hernandez of shooting him in the face. Carlos Ortiz. Carlos Ortiz, nicknamed Charlie Boy, is also charged with murder in the death of Lloyd and has pleaded not guilty. A law enforcement source says he cooperated with police and described the night of Lloyd's death. Ernest Wallace. Ernest Wallace is also charged with murder in the death of Lloyd. He has pleaded not guilty and is being tried separately. Prosecutors call him the ``muscle man'' for Hernandez. They say he was in the car with Hernandez, Lloyd, and Carlos Ortiz an hour before the car is seen on video heading to the industrial park where Lloyd was killed. Shayanna Jenkins. Shayanna Jenkins is Hernandez's fiancee and the mother of their daughter. She is charged with perjury, accused of lying to a grand jury about guns in their home. She has pleaded not guilty. Her sister, Shaneah, was dating Lloyd at the time of his death. Shaneah Jenkins. Shaneah Jenkins is the girlfriend of Lloyd. Her sister is Hernandez's fiancée. In court, the two sisters sit on opposite sides, Shayanna with the defense and Shaneah with the prosecution. Tanya Cummings-Singleton. Tanya Cummings-Singleton is a cousin of Hernandez. In her garage, police found the SUV allegedly driven by Hernandez and linked to the 2012 Boston double homicide. She was twice charged with contempt of court for refusing to testify before two grand juries despite immunity offers. She has pleaded guilty to obstruction in the Lloyd case. She is also suffering from cancer. Thaddeus Singleton. Thaddeus Singleton, husband of Tanya Cummings-Singleton, was killed in a car accident after Lloyd's slaying. Police say his speeding car went airborne and crashed. A source says police planned to interview him about his relationship with Hernandez. Shaquilla Thibou. Shaquilla Thibou is the sister of Lloyd. At trial she testified she saw her brother get into a car with three men who turned out to be Hernandez, Wallace and Ortiz before he was killed. Prosecutors say she received a final text from her brother that night minutes before he was shot telling her he was with ``Nfl,'' adding, ``just so u know.'' The judge has ruled that text inadmissible at trial, saying there is no proof it meant Lloyd feared for his life. Terri Hernandez. Terri Hernandez is Aaron Hernandez's mother. She is a school secretary. Dennis Hernandez. Dennis Hernandez was Aaron Hernandez's father. He had a close relationship with his sons and was deeply involved in their sports training. He died unexpectedly after hernia surgery when Hernandez was 16. DJ Hernandez. DJ Hernandez is Aaron Hernandez's older brother. He was a star high school athlete. He also was a standout athlete at the University of Connecticut and is an assistant coach at the University of Iowa. The prosecution. District Attorney Samuel Sutter, who had been leading the prosecution against Hernandez, is the newly elected mayor of Fall River, where the trial is being held. Assistant District Attorneys William McCauley and Patrick Bomberg are on the team leading the case against Hernandez. ``Probably my career.. will be defined more by this case than all of the other things we've done,'' Sutter has said. The defense. Attorneys James Sultan, Michael Fee and Charles Rankin are handling Hernandez's defense. In opening statements, Fee said Hernandez ``was planning a future, not a murder.'' Before trial, Rankin said he is confident Hernandez will be exonerated.
( CNN ) I don't always talk about news events with my daughters, but there was something about the story of ESPN reporter Britt McHenry and the wildly offensive way she spoke to that towing company employee that made me bring it up. One of the main things I preach to my girls, ages 7 and 9, is the importance of respecting other people, no matter who you are and what you go on to accomplish. It's something that my husband and I just do -- we show respect to everyone from a taxi driver to a teacher to the President of the United States. Let me say right here that I have lost my cool from time to time, whether it's been a phone call with a credit card company to complain about late fees or an experience of bad service at a restaurant. In those cases, when I feel like I'm going to pop, I keep saying, ``This is unacceptable, This is unacceptable,'' and either hang up in disgust or storm off. ( Not perfect ways of handling these incidents, but at no time would I ever think to insult or demean the other person in these situations. ). Some of McHenry's comments, such as how she's ``on television,'' imply that she may have the dangerous thinking that she, by dint of her career, education and income, is better than people who don't get paid what she does or have the same kind of career or educational opportunities. McHenry showed that she either forgot those ``golden rule'' lessons from childhood or that she hasn't really lived her life with that mantra. McHenry has since apologized on Twitter, saying she said ``some insulting and regrettable things,'' and that as frustrated as she was during an experience at a towing company in Virginia, she should ``always choose to be respectful and take the high road.''. But it's not clear that apology will satisfy anyone who watched the video of her exchange with the towing company worker. ``I see this Britt McHenry video, and think : it's not just about how a celebrity shouldn't act in public, it's how all of us shouldn't act,'' wrote ``Cait'' on Twitter. Said ``Shannon,'' also on Twittter, ``I had no idea who Britt McHenry was before but.. now I know she's the kind of woman I hope I've taught my daughters not to be.''. ``Her language and disdain brings shame on her, her profession, and her employer. People don't all of sudden have such a vile tirade. This comes after years of practice and a pattern of similar behaviors. Let's let her be an example to others,'' wrote C Cooper on a Change.org petition asking McHenry's employers to fire her. The McHenry story seemed to strike a chord in our household because my older daughter asked what was going to happen to her. This morning, I told her McHenry was suspended for a week by ESPN, and that led to another conversation. My kids seemed to get it and many celebrities also seem to remember to ``treat other people the way you would want them to treat you'' even in uncomfortable moments. Celebrity apologies : The good, bad and uncomfortable. So, Britt McHenry, check out these examples of how the rich, famous and powerful handled stressful situations with grace and dignity. After British journalist Katie Hopkins seriously fat-shamed pop music star Kelly Clarkson, saying a host of insulting things about the singer's weight, Clarkson won praise for her graceful response. ``That's because she doesn't know me. I'm awesome. It doesn't bother me. It's a free world. Say what you will. I've just never cared what people think,'' she said. A college baseball player gets suspended for calling Little League baseball phenom Mo `ne Davis a ``slut.'' Her response ? She emailed Bloomsburg University asking that the college reinstate him. ``Everyone makes mistakes and everyone deserves a second chance,'' Davis, the first girl to earn a win and to pitch a shutout in Little League World Series history, told ESPN.''.. I know right now he's really hurt and I know how hard he worked to get where he is. I mean, I was pretty hurt on my part but I know he's hurting even more.''. When an Argentinian journalist wrote an open letter to Pope Francis expressing concern about the pontiff meeting with the country's president ahead of the general election in October and possibly influencing the outcome, what did the Pope do ? Well, he picked up the phone and gave the journalist a call. Wish we could have been a fly on the wall for that conversation ! The pope appears to have been more than graceful, because after the conversation, the journalist pledged to learn how to pray. When Queen Bey faced immense criticism after allegedly lip-synching the national anthem in honor of President Obama's inauguration in 2013, she didn't come out swinging. Instead, she admitted to singing along with her ``pre-recorded track'' at the inauguration but only after she opened her news conference with what was described as a stirring, a cappella rendition of the national anthem. Finally, Reese Witherspoon may be the closest example for McHenry to consider when it comes to overcoming a very offensive episode. When Witherspoon and her husband were pulled over in 2013 for suspicion of driving under the influence, the Academy Award winning actress was recorded making comments to the officer such as, ``Do you know who I am ?'' and ``You're about to find out who I am.''. She ultimately issued an apologetic statement, and then went on morning television to apologize some more. ``We went out to dinner in Atlanta, and we had one too many glasses of wine, and we thought we were fine to drive and we absolutely were not,'' she said on ``Good Morning America.'' ``It's completely unacceptable, and we are so sorry and embarrassed. We know better, and we shouldn't have done that.''. And, she added, ``When a police officer tells you to stay in the car, you stay in the car. I learned that for sure,'' she told the GMA host. Now, did McHenry learn that when a towing company worker or anyone else makes you incredibly angry, you never berate them for their weight, job, appearance and income ?. Let's hope so. Can you think of other examples where the rich and powerful responded to a stressful situation with grace instead of disrespect ? Share your thoughts with Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.
( CNN ) American suburbanites who can do all their shopping without getting wet, driving from point-to-point or looking for a new place to park, can give much of the credit to Alfred Taubman. Taubman, a real estate developer who helped change the face of suburban life by popularizing upscale indoor shopping malls, died Friday at the age of 91. The announcement was made by his son, Robert Taubman, the chairman, president and chief executive officer of Taubman Centers Inc., the company his father founded 65 years ago. A. Alfred Taubman -- his first name was Adolph -- was born January 31, 1924, in Michigan to German Jewish immigrants who hit hard times during the Great Depression. ``I started working when I was 9,'' he told an interviewer in 2007. ``I really wanted to make some money.''. An Army Air Force veteran of World War II, he studied architecture at the University of Michigan and Lawrence Institute of Technology near Detroit, and worked for an architectural firm, but decided that drawing wasn't the path to success. ``I wanted to build.''. In his autobiography, ``Threshold Resistance : The Extraordinary Career of a Luxury Retailing Pioneer,'' Taubman said that when he ``looked over the horizon, I saw that there was money to be made by people who could build and own stores or, better yet, groups of stores.''. He founded the Taubman Co. in 1950 and began to demonstrate what the company's website calls an ``ability to assess and overcome threshold resistance -- a phrase he coined to describe the psychological and physical barriers that keep a shopper from entering a store.''. As the post-war growth of suburbia continued, retail developers like Taubman began to consider what that might mean : More and more people needed places to shop. Taubman embarked on multi-store developments in the 1950s, in places like Flint and Taylor, Michigan, and in 1961 broke ground on his first large mall, the 350,000-square-foot Arborland project in Ann Arbor. ``Demographically, I looked at the numbers, and as far as I was concerned we couldn't miss,'' he recalled in 2007. ``And we didn't.''. Indeed not. This year, Forbes estimated his net worth at $ 3.1 billion, and the company's U.S. malls generate average annual sales of $ 809 per square foot, according to the company's website. But if Alfred Taubman gained fame and amassed billions as one of the people who helped define suburban life, he gained notoriety along the way, as well. In 1983, he bought the renowned international auction house Sotheby's. And in 2002 he was jailed following a conviction for conspiring with rival auction house Christie's to fix auction house commission rates to maximize profits. He was released in 2003 after having served nine months in prison. He always maintained his innocence, saying one of his underlings had lied about him to keep from going to prison herself. Taubman was renowned for his attention to detail, knowledge of design and for developing some of the best-known malls in the United States. He first project was a freestanding bridal shop in Detroit. Over more than six decades, his company operated nearly 20 properties in the continental U.S., including well-known developments such as the Beverly Center in Los Angeles, The Mall at Short Hills in New Jersey and The Shops at Crystals, in Las Vegas. His designs evolved over the years to include not only enclosed malls but various styles of open-air developments. And his influence stretched far from the American soil and into the thriving markets of China and South Korea. People we've lost in 2015. Taubman remained active until the end of his life. He devoted much of his energy in his later years to philanthropic activities. And, just over three weeks before his death, he attended the grand opening of The Mall of San Juan in Puerto Rico with his sons Robert and William. According to a statement by Robert Taubman, the patriarch had dinner in his home in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, on Friday, then died of a heart attack. In addition to his sons, Robert and William, he is survived by a daughter, Gayle Taubman Kalisman, who is co-chair of the A. Alfred Taubman Medical Research Institute's advisory board, two stepchildren, and his second wife, Judith Mazor Rounick, a former Miss Israel. CNN's Cameron Tankersley contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Marine life seen swimming in unusual places. Water temperatures warmer than they should be. No snow where there should be feet of it. Some scientists are saying ``The Blob'' could be playing a factor. As monikers go, the blob doesn't sound very worrisome. But if you're a salmon fisherman in Washington or a California resident hoping to see the end of the drought, the blob could become an enemy of top concern. A University of Washington climate scientist and his associates have been studying the blob -- a huge area of unusually warm water in the Pacific -- for months. ``In the fall of 2013 and early 2014 we started to notice a big, almost circular mass of water that just didn't cool off as much as it usually did, so by spring of 2014 it was warmer than we had ever seen it for that time of year,'' said Nick Bond, who works at the Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean in Seattle, Washington. Bond, who gave the blob its name, said it was 1,000 miles long, 1,000 miles wide and 100 yards deep in 2014 -- and it has grown this year. And it's not the only one ; there are two others that emerged in 2014, Nate Mantua of the Southwest Fisheries Science Center -- part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA ) -- said in September. One is in the Bering Sea and the other is off the coast of Southern California. Waters in the blob have been warmer by about 5.5 degrees, a significant rise. A recent set of studies published in Geophysical Research Letters by Bond's group points to a high-pressure ridge over the West Coast that has calmed ocean waters for two winters. The result was more heat staying in the water because storms didn't kick up and help cool the surface water. ``The warmer temperatures we see now aren't due to more heating, but less winter cooling,'' a recent news release from the University of Washington announcing the studies said. The university has worked with NOAA on the research. According to New Scientist magazine, some marine species are exploring the warmer waters, leading some fish to migrate hundreds of miles from their normal habitats. The magazine cited fisherman and wildlife officials in Alaska who have seen skipjack tuna and thresher sharks. Pygmy killer whales have been spotted off the coast of Washington. ``I've never seen some of these species here before,'' Bill Peterson of the Northwest Fisheries Science Center in Seattle told the New Scientist. And he was worried about the adult Pacific salmon that normally feed on tiny crustaceans and other food sources that are not around in the same numbers off the coast of the Pacific Northwest. ``They had nothing to eat,'' he told the magazine of last year's conditions in the blob. It appears that food has moved to cooler waters. In January, Bond told the Chinook Observer in Long Beach, Washington, that his concern is for very young salmon that are still upstream. ``In particular, the year class that would be going to sea next spring,'' he said. NOAA said in a news release last month that California sea lion pups have been found extremely underweight and dying, possibly because of an ocean with fewer things to eat. ``We have been seeing emaciated or dehydrated sea lions show up on beaches,'' Justin Greenman, assistant stranding coordinator for NOAA on the West Coast, told CNN. The numbers are overwhelming facilities that care for the stranded sea lions, most of whom are pups, local officials said. Record number of sea lion pups stranded in California. The blob also is affecting life on land. For the past few years, that persistent ridge of high pressure has kept the West dry and warm, exacerbating the drought in California, Oregon and Washington. One of the primary problems is small snow accumulation in the mountains. In early April, officials measured the snowpack in California at a time when it should be the highest. This year it hit an all-time low at 1.4 inches of water content in the snow, just 5 % of the annual average. The previous low for April 1 had been 25 % in 1977 and 2014. ( pdf ). Gov. Jerry Brown, in announcing water restrictions the same day, stood on a patch of dry, brown grass in the Sierra Nevada mountains that is usually blanketed by up to 5 feet of snow. Low California snowpack ushers mandatory water restrictions. The heat has caused rising air, which can lead to conditions that produce more thunderstorms. With warmer air in California, areas at higher elevations that usually see snow have seen rain instead. That has led to the lower snowpack and helped compound the drought. The storms also mean more lightning and more wildfires. And the blob affects people on other areas of the country. That same persistent jet stream pattern has allowed cold air to spill into much of the Midwest and East. This stuck pattern has led to the record cold and snow in the Midwest and Northeast over the last two seasons with record snows we have seen in Boston and Detroit, and the most snow we have seen in decades for cities such as Chicago. The weather pattern is confusing the experts. There are some that think it might be a Pacific Decadal Oscillation, a long-lasting El Nino-like pattern in the Pacific. Dennis Hartmann, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Washington, doesn't believe the answer is clear. ``I don't think we know..'' he said in the university's news release. ``Maybe it will go away quickly and we won't talk about it anymore, but if it persists for a third year, then we'll know something really unusual is going on.''. CNN's Sam Stringer contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It lays claim to being the most isolated human settlement on earth, a volcanic archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean, home to just under 270 people. Now, the tiny settlement of Tristan da Cunha is seeking the help of architects and designers the world over to secure its future well into the 21st century. With the help of the Royal Institute of British Architects ( RIBA ), the UK overseas territory is holding an international competition to improve aging infrastructure and make the island self-sustainable as it approaches the 200th anniversary of its settlement. As a sign of just how removed Tristan da Cunha is from the rest of the world, there are only seven family names on the islands. Those who live there are mainly the descendants of Dutch, American and Italian sailors as well as 19th century British explorers. There are also a handful of expatriate Brits. But watching hit TV series ``Lost ``or reading up on William Golding's ``Lord of the Flies'' won't be required research for competition entrants. Instead, those with experience of renewable energy in remote regions, modern housing and developing cost-effective agrarian systems are encouraged to apply. ``The competition is looking at enhancing the built environment on the island ( and ) making all structures more energy efficient,'' the island's administrator, Alex Mitcham told CNN when visiting the UK recently. Mitcham explained that most existing homes and public buildings on Tristan da Cunha are small, bungalow-type structures made from made from a mix of concrete and local volcanic rock. Few have simple insulation that can lead to energy savings while the infrastructure for things like renewable power generation and internet provision remain limited. The island is also only accessible by sea 60-days-a-year through a small port in its only town, Edinburgh of the Seven Seas. According to James Porter of RIBA Competitions, contestants will have to factor in irregular design questions such as ``how can we get the material ashore and how can we actually think of ways that we can put things together once there ?''. ``There are limitations on the amount of cargo that can be trans-shipped,'' he added. In total, Tristan da Cunha is made up of four islands. Tristan is the largest land mass and the only one to house people. Two more unpopulated islands, Nightingale and Inaccessible, lie close by. A third, Gough, is situated roughly 230 miles away. Both Gough and Inaccessible are UNESCO World Heritage sites. The closest mainland port is Cape Town, South Africa, some seven days sailing time and 1,750 miles north-east. Tristan already has a pub, shop, cafe, dance hall, museum, catholic church and swimming pool. There are also two expatriate doctors, two Tristanian nurses and school teachers with some 30 students of varying ages. The island's main industry is lobster fishing, with exports reaching as far afield as the U.S., Australia, Japan and the EU thanks to a fishing company that has exclusive rights to fish in the surrounding waters. Tristan earns additional income from the sale of unique stamps, coins and handicraft souvenirs, Mitcham explained. Modest revenue also flows from tourism and visitor accommodation. ``As it is the remotest inhabited island in the world, the Tristanians are already very self sufficient, being able to produce many of their own foodstuffs ( like fish, livestock and potatoes ),'' Mitcham said. However, the cost of living has increased in recent years, he added. With limited transport and communication links, the islanders are also keen to see how they can reduce their reliance on fossil fuels, improve the energy efficiency of properties and reduce imports. ``We are slowly updating 40-year old infrastructure,'' Mitcham said of the last time the island experienced a major redesign. That modernization happened roughly a decade after the island was evacuated temporarily due to ongoing volcanic activity. Before that period, the main way for the islanders to communicate with the outside world was by Morse code. Things have already changed a lot since then, however. ``A new water system, electrical system and waste water system have just been completed,'' Mitcham said. ``And with the 200th Anniversary of the founding of Tristan ( 2016 ) almost upon us it is an appropriate time to look at new initiatives that may be able to help the future viability of the community.''. Interested architects have until mid-June to submit their initial ideas. The best will be whittled down to an initial 20 and then five after further analysis between June and September. Porter and Mitcham say the islanders will have to apply to the UK and possibly the EU for grants to fund the project. The winner is penciled in to be announced in June 2016. The most important aspect for applicants is to ``identify cost-effective and practical solutions to improve the energy efficiency ( through renewable energy sources ) of properties,'' Mitcham said ``as well as modernizing.. government structures.''
( CNN ) Arizona investigators have released dramatic video of a Walmart parking lot brawl that left a police officer wounded, one man dead, and reportedly involved members of a Christian family band. Enoch Gaver, 21, was killed in the fight in the town of Cottonwood, and suspect David Gaver, 28, was shot in the stomach and taken into custody. Police Sergeant Jeremy Daniels was hit in the leg by a bullet fired during the melee. The police dashcam video, released Friday, shows Cottonwood Police approaching the group of eight people -- all identified as members of the Gaver family -- around a large SUV in a Walmart parking lot on March 21. Officers wanted to question them about the alleged assault of a Walmart employee who was going into the store bathroom. The police were accompanied by another Walmart employee. On the video, an officer tells the group that they ``need to separate these folks and talk to them.'' Someone then responds, ``No, you are not going to separate me from my parents,'' and, ``don't touch me.''. The video then shows a police officer being put in a headlock and knocked to the ground. The sound of Taser fire is heard. Police say pepper spray was deployed and that at least three shots were fired in an apparent struggle for an officer's gun. Several times on the video the group appears to surrender, but starts fighting again. The melee goes for several minutes until backup officers arrive and make arrests. Police charged four members of the family with assaulting an officer and resisting arrest. Two minors were also taken into custody and are being held at a juvenile detention facility. At least three members of the family are reportedly in a Christian band named ``Matthew 24 Now,'' which is a Bible verse that refers to the end times, according to CNN affiliate KPHO. The family was living out of its Chevy Suburban. CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The mass killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, which began 100 years ago Friday, is said by some scholars and others to have been the first genocide of the 20th century, even though the word ``genocide'' did not exist at the time. The issue of whether to call the killings a genocide is emotional, both for Armenians, who are descended from those killed, and for Turks, the heirs to the Ottomans. For both groups, the question touches as much on national identity as on historical facts. Some Armenians feel their nationhood can not be fully recognized unless the truth of what happened to their forebears is acknowledged. Some Turks still view the Armenians as having been a threat to the Ottoman Empire in a time of war, and say many people of various ethnicities -- including Turks -- were killed in the chaos of war. In addition, some Turkish leaders fear that acknowledgment of a genocide could lead to demands for huge reparations. So, what do we know about happened in those fateful days ? Here are some answers :. The Ottoman Turks, having recently entered World War I on the side of Germany and the Austro-Hungarian Empire, were worried that Armenians living in the Ottoman Empire would offer wartime assistance to Russia. Russia had long coveted control of Constantinople ( now Istanbul ), which controlled access to the Black Sea -- and therefore access to Russia's only year-round seaports. Many historians agree that the number was about 2 million. However, victims of the mass killings also included some of the 1.8 million Armenians living in the Caucasus under Russian rule, some of whom were massacred by Ottoman forces in 1918 as they marched through East Armenia and Azerbaijan. By 1914, Ottoman authorities were already portraying Armenians as a threat to the empire's security. Then, on the night of April 23-24, 1915, the authorities in Constantinople, the empire's capital, rounded up about 250 Armenian intellectuals and community leaders. Many of them ended up deported or assassinated. April 24, known as Red Sunday, is commemorated as Genocide Remembrance Day by Armenians around the world. Friday is the 100th anniversary of that day. This is a major point of contention. Estimates range from 300,000 to 2 million deaths between 1914 and 1923, with not all of the victims in the Ottoman Empire. But most estimates -- including one of 800,000 between 1915 and 1918, made by Ottoman authorities themselves -- fall between 600,000 and 1.5 million. Whether due to killings or forced deportation, the number of Armenians living in Turkey fell from 2 million in 1914 to under 400,000 by 1922. Almost any way one can imagine. While the death toll is in dispute, photographs from the era document some mass killings. Some show Ottoman soldiers posing with severed heads, others with them standing amid skulls in the dirt. The victims are reported to have died in mass burnings and by drowning, torture, gas, poison, disease and starvation. Children were reported to have been loaded into boats, taken out to sea and thrown overboard. Rape, too, was frequently reported. In addition, according to the website armenian-genocide. org, ``The great bulk of the Armenian population was forcibly removed from Armenia and Anatolia to Syria, where the vast majority was sent into the desert to die of thirst and hunger.''. No. Genocide was not even a word at the time, much less a legally defined crime. The word ``genocide'' was invented in 1944 by a Polish lawyer named Raphael Lemkin to describe the Nazis' systematic attempt to eradicate Jews from Europe. He formed the word by combining the Greek word for race with the Latin word for killing. Genocide became a crime in 1948, when the United Nations approved the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The definition included acts meant ``to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group.''. Armenia, the Vatican, the European Parliament, France, Russia and Canada. Germany is expected to join that group on Friday, the 100th anniversary of the start of the killings. Turkey, the United States, the European Commission, the United Kingdom and the United Nations. A U.N. subcommittee called the killings genocide in 1985, but current U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon declines to use the word. Also, a year ago, on the eve of the 99th anniversary of Red Sunday, then-Turkish Prime Minister ( now-President ) Recep Tayyip Erdogan offered condolences for the mass killings, which he said had ``inhumane consequences.'' While Turkey vehemently continues to reject the word ``genocide,'' his remarks went further than those of any previous Turkish leader in acknowledging the suffering of Armenians.
( CNN ) Larry Upright died just one day after Hillary Clinton announced she was running for president. And in his obituary, his family made just two requests : please donate to a children's hospital, and please don't vote for Clinton. Upright, a staunch Republican, died Monday at a North Carolina hospital. He was 81. ``In lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to Shriners Hospital for Children,'' his obituary reads. ``Also, the family respectfully asks that you do not vote for Hillary Clinton in 2016. R.I.P. Grandaddy.''. Daughter Jill McLain said it was natural to put that line in her father's tribute. ``He was very passionate about politics and probably passed a little of that on,'' she told CNN affiliate WSOC. Son Michael Upright said he knew his father would enjoy the request. ``We know he's up there giggling right now, just laughing out loud,'' he told WSOC. Upright's passions included much more than just politics. His greatest joy was his family, and he was a former Shriner of the Year at the Cabarrus Shrine Club, according to his obituary. After retiring from the building automation industry, he became an avid golfer. But it's the last few lines of his obituary that is spurred comments from across the country. ``You have my solemn promise I will not waste a vote on Hillary Clinton,'' Marina Shear of Dallas wrote in the obituary's online guestbook. ``You were a wise man, Larry Upright,'' said Ron Renno of Forsyth, Georgia. ``I will remember your request in November 2016. Rest in peace, Sir.''. Nigel Dufont of Kannapolis, North Carolina, offered his condolences but said he wouldn't budge on his support of Clinton. ``So sorry to hear about Larry, but I am still voting for Hilary !'' he wrote. And an anonymous commenter stayed open-minded to whoever might enter the field. ``May you rest in peace. I will vote for Hillary if she is the best candidate.''
New York ( CNN ) Wall Street is more than ready for Hillary Clinton. The former secretary of state confirmed on Sunday what the political world has expected for months -- eight years after her first failed White House bid, Clinton will once again seek the Democratic Party's nomination for president. ``I'm hitting the road to earn your vote, because it's your time,'' Clinton said in a video released Sunday afternoon officially kicking off her campaign. ``And I hope you'll join me on this journey.''. As Clinton sets off onto the campaign trail to reintroduce herself to voters and court donors across the country, Wall Street elites are ready to roll out the red carpet. But while the enthusiastic support from the industry will be a financial boon for Clinton's newly launched campaign, it will also pose a delicate balancing act when it comes to appeasing a vocal wing of her party that is antagonistic toward the banking sector. Clinton, 67, has long enjoyed a close relationship with the financial industry. As a New York senator for almost a decade, she represented Wall Street and courted the industry aggressively during her last presidential campaign. And there is a certain degree of nostalgia within the industry for her husband's two-term presidency, marked by the 1990s bull market and broad financial deregulation, including the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, which separated commercial banking from riskier investing activities. Now Clinton's allies in the finance world are eager to galvanize a broad network of potential donors in New York and beyond. Many on Wall Street and in the broader business community view her as a dependable, business-friendly force within a Democratic Party that has grown increasingly populist during President Barack Obama's time in office. Robert Wolf, the former CEO of UBS Americas and a close Obama associate who will back Clinton in 2016, said there's an ``incredible amount of enthusiasm'' for her campaign to get off the ground. ``We know the secretary from the years of being first lady to the senator to the secretary, so we have decades of working relationship with her,'' Wolf, who now runs a boutique consulting firm headquartered in Manhattan, told CNN. ``I don't think it's surprising that the former senator of New York is close to the finance community.''. Longtime Clinton friend and prominent Democratic fundraiser Alan Patricof, who founded the venture capital firm Greycroft Partners, said Clinton has ``an enormous following'' both inside and outside of the finance world. ``There are a lot of people who perhaps didn't know her as well before who are all set to jump on the bandwagon,'' Patricof said. As compared with 2008, he added : ``There is no diminishment, just the opposite -- an acceleration of interest in her running for the presidency.''. But the fanfare won't sit well with everyone. The former first lady's perceived coziness with Wall Street is a source of irritation for liberal activists, who hope to push the eventual Democratic nominee to embrace progressive ideals during the 2016 primaries. Clinton, who lost her first presidential campaign to a challenger from the left, seems to recognize that the liberal wing of the party has grown even more vocal and influential since then, especially on economic matters. Her video message on Sunday centered on the theme of upward mobility and an economic recovery that has left some behind. ``Americans have fought their way back from tough economic times, but the deck is still stacked in favor of those at the top,'' Clinton said, vowing to be a ``champion'' of ``everyday Americans.''. That statement tracks closely with her tone in recent public appearances, where the former secretary has been hitting on populist economic themes. She has taken on a range of issues that most appeal to liberals, such as the wealth gap, minimum wage and equal pay, in the months leading up to her announcement. In January, she took to social media to defend the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law, which contains provisions that the industry has tried to roll back. ``Attacking financial reform is risky and wrong,'' she wrote on Twitter. Bill Daley, a longtime Clinton ally and former Obama chief of staff, said Clinton has to reintroduce herself to the party. If she defends policies viewed as having contributed to the financial crisis, Daley said, ``that's a problem.''. He continued : ``My guess is she'll have enough policy positions that says she's not in the tank with them.''. Clinton's early gestures have not satisfied some activists, who point to Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren as their candidate of choice. Several liberal groups have even launched a formal draft campaign to elevate the senator and highlight her progressive views. Former Republican New Hampshire Sen. Judd Gregg, who served as head of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, said part of Clinton's challenge stems from the fact that ``the center of the Democratic Party has moved very much to the left.''. ``Hillary has always been much more rational on these issues and much more mainstream,'' Gregg said. ``I presume she's going to get the nomination, but she may be contested from the left.''. While Warren has shown no interest in running for president this cycle, other Democrats have been taking aim at big banks as they tour the early presidential states. Former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, an independent who caucuses with Democrats, are all testing the waters. They have made economic populism central to their potential campaigns, proposing to crack down on the banking sector, reform the culture on Wall Street and toughen financial regulations. None of these potential candidates will be able to compete with Clinton's extensive fundraising apparatus. But their presence in the race could exert pressure on Clinton to embrace progressive policies. After Clinton's announcement Sunday, a collection of liberal activists declared that the former secretary of state must prove her progressive bona fides. ``We look forward to Hillary Clinton and other candidates laying out their platforms and hearing whether they embrace the fights that Sen. Warren has spent her life leading,'' said Ready for Warren campaign manager Erica Sagrans. ``In the coming days, Ready for Warren will be stepping up our efforts to convince Warren to run for president.''. Now that she is a formally declared candidate, political strategists expect Clinton to be more outspoken, laying out her economic priorities quickly and in her own terms. Democratic strategist Chris Lehane downplayed the notion of Clinton-Warren tension in the Democratic Party, predicting that with Clinton as an announced candidate, ``she'll offer a pretty compelling rationale'' for her campaign. Lehane, who worked in Bill Clinton's administration, said he envisioned an economic message for Clinton anchored in her biography : ``I grew up in the Midwest in a middle class family, I understand the challenges that they face, we need to make sure that America gives people a fair shot.''. Despite Clinton's embrace of more populist rhetoric, finance and business leaders aren't too concerned that she will back policies that are anathema to them. They expect that she will be able to articulate a broad economic goals aimed at the middle class rather than one that rails against bailouts and financial excess, particularly as the country gets more distance from the last financial crisis. Kathy Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a prominent business coalition, predicted that Clinton would be able to maintain her relationship with Wall Street without alienating the liberal base. The fact that Clinton ``is knowledgeable and maintains good, open relationships with the business and financial world does not suggest that she's in anybody's pocket,'' Wylde said. ``She's demonstrated that she's an independent force.''
( CNN ) Mercedes driver and F1 championship leader Lewis Hamilton stole pole position for Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix from teammate and fierce rival Nico Rosberg in dramatic fashion. Hamilton took first place on the front row on the last lap, beating Rosberg by a slim four hundredths of a second margin. Frenemies. The two former friends have enjoyed, or rather endured, a heated rivalry since falling out last season and Rosberg's annoyance at Hamilton's last ditch success was obvious. The German appeared upset as he left his car and refused to shake Hamilton's hand. He did, however, find time to congratulate fellow German driver Sebastian Vettel, who will start in third after the Ferrari driver surprisingly won the Malaysian GP two weeks ago. ``I don't actually mind him having more ( poles ),'' a nonplussed Hamilton told AFP after the session. ``He can have the trophy for most poles. As long as I have the trophy for winning -- that's all that matters. Ultimately qualifying is not the end of the world.''. ``I am frustrated''. In the post qualifying press conference Rosberg appeared more magnanimous, but still shocked by Hamilton's last minute burst of speed. ``I was frustrated, I am frustrated, yeah,'' Rosberg admitted. ``It's so close and of course I would have wanted to have pole today.. It's just four hundredths and that makes it even more annoying because it's just very, very close. A lap is never 100 per cent perfect and four hundredths is really the blink of an eye.''. Kimi Raikkonen will join his teammate Vettel on the second row and will be looking for a repeat of Ferrari's performance in Malaysia, which shocked Mercedes and Hamilton in particular. Huge support. But Hamilton has been quickest all weekend and will enjoy a surprising amount of support in Shanghai, a track the British driver has always thrived on. ``Have you seen the banners that I have here ?'' he told the assembled press when asked why he liked racing at Shanghai so much. ``The support I have here's pretty unreal. I just like the track. I guess it just naturally suits my driving style.''
( CNN ) On the stage of a TV studio in Phnom Penh, Cambodian-American Ly Sivhong is telling an engrossed audience a tragic, but familiar, story. On April 17, 1975 -- 40 years ago today -- life as Ly knew it was shattered when her hometown, the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh, fell to the genocidal Khmer Rouge regime of the Communist Party of Kampuchea. Ly, then 13, was separated from her mother and two of her sisters who, along with virtually the entire population of Phnom Penh -- about two million people -- were sent on a forced march into the countryside to work. Ly never saw them again, nor learned what happened to them. But about 20,000 people died from execution, starvation or exhaustion during this exodus at gunpoint, according to war crimes prosecutors ; the others were subjected to slave labor in rural camps once they reached their destination, where many met similar fates. The urban evacuation marked the first phase in the Khmer Rouge's revolutionary program of social engineering, intended to establish a new order -- free of money, family ties, religion, education, property and foreign influence. Aimed at creating an agrarian utopia, it would instead prove one of the worst genocides of the modern era, resulting in the deaths of at least 1.7 million Cambodians -- about a quarter of the country's population -- over the next four years. Ly remained in the capital with her father and four other siblings, three of whom would succumb to starvation and disease in the following years, before her father was shot to death before her eyes in 1979. His killing prompted Ly to leave her sole remaining family member, youngest sister Bo, in the care of a local couple. She set out on her own, making her way to a refugee camp and eventually to the United States. For more than 30 years she has wondered what happened to her baby sister. ``I think she was the only family member to survive,'' she says, with tears in her eyes. As she finishes her story, the producers usher a woman on the stage. It's Bo. Ly embraces her sister and both women sob. ``I missed you so much,'' Ly says. ``I've always searched for you,'' Bo tells her. Since production began five years ago, the television show, ``It's Not A Dream,'' has reunited members of 54 Cambodian families shattered by the genocide. More than 1,500 have sought its help. The series is just one example of the ways in which Cambodia's traumatized society is beginning to undertake the fraught, painful business of reckoning with their history. ``The scars of the Khmer Rouge are very deep and physical and present in modern Cambodia,'' said Theary Seng, a human rights lawyer whose parents were killed by the regime, and who moved to the U.S. as a refugee before returning to her homeland as an adult. She described the country as a ``land of orphans.''. For decades after the Khmer Rouge were driven from Phnom Penh by Soviet-backed Vietnamese forces in January 1979, the regime's crimes were seldom spoken about, let alone attempts made to seek redress for victims. In large part, this was because people remained scared, say experts. Far from being snuffed out by the Vietnamese invasion, the Khmer Rouge existed for another two decades. After fleeing the capital in 1979, Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot and his supporters established a stronghold in the west. They continued as an insurgent guerrilla force and became part of a government-in-exile that, until 1990, was recognized by the U.N. as the country's only legitimate representative. ``In many villages, people have been living side by side with the executioners for decades,'' said Krisna Uk, executive director of the Center for Khmer Studies. Craig Etcheson, a Cambodia expert at the School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution at George Mason University, said that ``for many years, there was a virtual taboo on even speaking of the Khmer Rouge, as if the very words were.. a malevolent spirit lurking in the corner of every room.''. The silence was also due to the fact that Cambodians, in Seng's words, ``lacked the vocabulary'' of therapy and healing to process a crime of the magnitude of the one perpetrated against their society. The Khmer Rouge's attempts to reboot society at ``Year Zero'' had involved a concentrated effort to exterminate the country's educated classes -- doctors, lawyers, accountants, engineers, merchants and clergy. ``Nearly two generations of young Cambodian men grew up learning little more than how to kill,'' said Etcheson. ``When it was finally time to rebuild, there were effectively no bootstraps with which the country could pull itself up again.''. Even today, said Uk, young Cambodians are not taught about the genocide in high school. In an impoverished country -- one of Asia's poorest, albeit with 7 % predicted economic growth this year -- most young people seemed to be focused on getting ahead than looking back, she said. Some were even skeptical that the Khmer Rouge's crimes -- the systematic butchery of the ``killing fields'' -- had really occurred, she added. The space for discussing, redressing and healing from the genocide only began to open up in the past decade with the establishment of the Khmer Rouge Tribunal, said Seng. Founded in 2006, the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia ( ECCC ) is a ``hybrid'' tribunal using both Cambodian and international judges and staff to investigate the Khmer Rouge's crimes against humanity and bring leading regime figures to justice. Intended as a southeast Asian equivalent of the Nuremberg trials, the tribunal, which has cost $ 232 million so far, initially enjoyed broad support. ``We had great hope for this process,'' said Seng. ``The presence of the international community raised the comfort level of the population to speak about the Khmer Rouge crimes.''. But the pace of proceedings has seemed glacial, given the advancing years of the suspected war criminals, two of whom have died while facing trial. Another was ruled mentally unfit to stand trial. ( The Khmer Rouge's top leader, Pol Pot, died in 1998, having never faced charges. ). This, coupled with persistent accusations of political interference from the Cambodian government, has soured attitudes towards the court. Seng, who once appeared as a civil party in proceedings, today regards it as a ``sham.'' For many victims, it is ``too little, too late.''. OPINION : An ongoing struggle for justice after the Khmer Rouge. In the first case heard, Kaing Guek Eav, also known as Comrade Duch -- commandant of the notorious Tuol Sleng prison where more than 14,000 people were killed -- received a life sentence for war crimes, crimes against humanity, murder and torture. The court's only other verdicts, delivered in August last year, sentenced Non Chea, the regime's ``Brother Number Two,'' and Khieu Samphan, ``Brother Number Four,'' to life. Both men have appealed their convictions. In a separate case, the pair are on trial on additional charges of crimes against humanity and genocide. Evidence is expected to continue being heard into 2016, ECCC spokesman Lars Olsen said. Two further, and highly controversial cases, known as 003 and 004, are also currently under investigation. Three people were charged last month in relation to those cases : former Khmer Rouge navy commander Meas Muth ; Im Chaem, a former district commander accused of leading a labor camp ; and Ao An, a former deputy accused of overseeing massacres at detention centers. Two other suspects are being investigated. Olsen said no further cases would be pursued after 003 and 004. Prime Minister Hun Sen, Cambodia's strongman leader for decades, has long been a vocal opponent of 003 and 004, claiming that pursuing the cases could push the country towards civil war. Hun Sen himself is a former Khmer Rouge battalion commander, who defected to the Vietnamese side ; his perceived political interference is viewed by critics like Seng as an attempt to shield political allies from the tribunal. Others are more forgiving of the tribunal's shortcomings. Etcheson, a former investigator for the tribunal, has described it as an ``imperfect vessel'' for delivering justice, but says Cambodia's leaders must strike a balance between two imperatives : delivering justice for victims, and completing the reintegration of former Khmer Rouge into society. He said the most important aspects of the tribunal's work are those that take place outside the courtroom -- triggering changes in Cambodian society. ``In that respect, the proceedings.. may be shaping up to be more successful than anyone could have hoped,'' he added. Undoubtedly, Cambodians today have overcome the fear of talking about the genocide -- to the extent that even the perpetrators feel emboldened to say their piece. Krisna Uk said the country has seen a wave of Khmer Rouge memoirs, written by former cadres wanting to argue their case before they die. ``There's a lot of people who want to tell the world they've been fooled by a grand idea of a revolution which went bad,'' she said. Khieu Samphan, ``Brother Number Four,'' published one such effort ahead of his trial, while Sikoeun Suong, a Sorbonne-educated former diplomat for the Khmer Rouge regime, published his ``Journey of a Khmer Rouge Intellectual'' in French in 2013. He told an interviewer from France's Le Monde last year that he believed that Khmer Rouge dictator Pol Pot's prescriptions for Cambodia were sound. ``I remain convinced that the Marxist analysis made by Pol Pot of the socioeconomic situation of Cambodia, a poor and sparsely populated country, was correct,'' he said. For survivors, these self-serving justifications for crimes gone unpunished must be hard to take. But for a few of them, at least, Cambodia's opening up about the genocide has finally brought about the prospect of some healing, however bittersweet. On the stage of the ``It's Not a Dream'' studio, as Ly hugs her long-lost sister, footage of an even older woman is projected on a screen. ``Do you know the person in the video ?'' the show's host asks. ``Yes,'' Ly says. ``She is my mother.''. Moments later, Te Souymoy, 77, is brought up on stage. ``Where have you two been ?'' Te asks. ``I always worried about you two.''. ``I thought you died,'' Ly says. The three women cry and embrace. ``It is very miserable for all of us,'' the old woman says.
( CNN ) They come from more than 20 countries, drawn to Libya as the funnel to Europe. Eritreans want to escape repression or military service ; Somalis flee Al-Shabaab and clan warfare ; Syrians have given up hope of returning home. In villages in Senegal and elsewhere across West Africa, young men sell all they have in the hope of a better life in Europe, perhaps hoping to join a cousin or brother who made it. Motivations among the tens of thousands making the trek to the Mediterranean coast are as many and varied as the nationalities involved, according to researchers and human rights groups. But in 2014 more than 80 % of them headed for the Libyan coast as the easiest point of embarkation. From the Horn of Africa to the Atlantic, from Syria and Gaza, these would-be migrants travel well-established smuggling routes. Along the way they must cross deserts and mountains, risk kidnap or robbery, are often cheated or left stranded. One African migrant reported surviving on toothpaste for days. A teenage Somali who made it to Malta told researchers that he had warned other family members not to come. ``I tell them its 95 % sure that you will die,'' he said. The International Organization for Migration ( IOM ) has tracked the migrant flows through North Africa for years. Eritreans have long been prominent among the travelers, escaping an authoritarian government, poverty and indefinite military service -- a land without possibilities. ``Many conscripts are not demobilized from the military as scheduled and some were forced to serve indefinitely under threats of detention, torture, or punishment of their families,'' according to a report by the Regional Mixed Migration Secretariat ( RMMS ) in Nairobi last year. They travel to Sudan, so long as they can avoid kidnap by tribes on the border, and are handed from one group of smugglers to the next in relay. One Eritrean woman told the UN Refugee agency ( UNHCR ) this month that she had paid $ 5,000 to reach the Mediterranean. Eritreans and Syrians made up half of the migrant traffic to Europe last year, according to Arezo Malakooti, director of migration research at Altai Consulting and author of one of the most detailed studies of migration patterns. Malakooti has recently visited seven countries, including Libya, Tunisia and Morocco to update her study. The ``push factor'' is much greater than the ``pull'' of Europe, she says. Upheavals and instability across much of Africa and the Middle East -- combined with the perception that Libya's doors are open -- have led to a massive increase in the numbers trying to reach Libya. ``Worsening repression in Eritrea'' has been one factor, she says -- while Eritreans already in refugee camps in Sudan have decided to make a dash for the Mediterranean. One reason is that other routes -- through Saudi Arabia and to Israel -- have become more difficult : Israel has adopted a much tougher approach on would-be Eritrean migrants trying to enter the country through the Sinai desert, including detention, and Yemen's implosion has cut off that conduit. As one Eritrean told the humanitarian journal IRIN last year : ``People were traveling to Israel because it was the only way, and now they're traveling to Europe because it's the only way.''. Somalis, often seen as the third most numerous nationality among migrants headed to the Mediterranean, face a perfect storm of crises. ``Extreme poverty ; prolonged insecurity ; sexual violence and other serious human rights violations ; lack of access to basic needs such as food, medical services, healthcare and livelihoods'' are all contributory factors, says the RMMS. Sea-tossed storm of human misery hits Italian shores. The IOM told CNN it is seeing a spike in would-be migrants from Senegal, Mali, Guinea and Gambia in West Africa. Many reason that Libya's chaos is an opportunity : border posts are left abandoned, the coastline unguarded. Most West Africans make the journey for economic reasons ; the majority are single men in their twenties. Populations in the region are swelling but farmland and economic security shrinking. Often, say researchers, the oldest son leaves to find work so he can remit funds home -- perhaps misled by fables of riches. Malakooti noted in a recent report that ``unrealistic expectations of their migration is fueled by migrants in destination who rarely send negative news home because of the pressure on them to succeed.''. But West Africans who have sold livestock or other possessions only to be caught or stranded can face destitution when they return home : 400 Senegalese were recently repatriated from Libya by the Red Cross and IOM. Malians have the added incentive of the recent conflict in which jihadist groups seized nearly half the country before French-led intervention pushed them back. Joel Millman of the IOM says there's also been an increase in the number of Nigerian Christians following this route, escaping the chaos and brutality inflicted on their towns and villages by Boko Haram. Another disturbing phenomenon, according to Malakooti, is the trafficking of African women for prostitution to Italy through Libya. While still a small fraction of the overall migration, the number of women smuggled for sexual exploitation in Europe rose threefold in 2014, she says. Why migrants are risking their lives to reach Italy. A Geneva-based group, the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organized Crime, estimated last year that about half of West African migrants pass through the town of Agadez in northern Niger. A crackdown in 2013 on organized convoys leaving Agadez stemmed the flow for a while, but gangs from the Toubou tribe, which controls the cross-border trade, developed new routes and raised their prices. A migrant might pay as much as $ 300 to reach southern Libya in a truck or pick-up, according to researchers. Reliable figures on the numbers passing through Agadez are difficult to come by, but the consensus among experts is somewhere between 2,000 and 7,000 every month. Other hubs include Khartoum in Sudan, a way-station for migrants from East Africa, and Tamanrasset in southern Algeria, where a fake Malian passport aids passage. Algeria has also been a destination for Syrian refugees, but new visa requirements have forced them to seek other routes -- often through Turkey and the Greek islands. Hundreds of thousands of other migrants have already been in Libya for years, attracted to jobs as day laborers when Moammar Gadhafi was in power. Now they face violence, discrimination and religious persecution -- and are unable even to remit home what little they earn. So at least some are embarking on a journey to Europe they never intended to take. Malakooti believes this is a major factor in the rising numbers trying to reach Europe. The recent murder of Egyptian and Ethiopian Christians by ISIS's Libyan affiliate may have hastened the departure of some. A similar dynamic applies to Syrian refugees. ``Initially, they remained in Lebanon, Jordan and other neighboring countries to wait out the conflict,'' says Malakooti. Now they've given up, or the resources to accommodate them have evaporated -- and have decided to try to reach Europe and start over. Within Libya, the smugglers for the most part appear to be small groups or individuals rather than large networks, according to human rights organizations. They cluster in dusty towns such as Sabha and Qatrun and use what are known as `connection houses.'. How is Europe going to tackle migrant crisis. Those driving migrants to Tripoli may have no connection with gangs at the coast. Such a journey, across the desert to avoid checkpoints, might cost a migrant $ 200 : in a failed state that sort of cash quickly generates armed rivalries. Tribal feuds, roaming militias and criminal gangs mean migrants need the skills of a smuggler. The arrival of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) in Libya has further complicated passage ; in January jihadists killed 14 Libyan soldiers near Sabha. Malakooti detects a changing pattern since the Syrian conflict began. It has injected more money into the smuggling business, which has therefore become more organized. The more reliable groups can charge more ; she says some migrants buy a ``package'' from smugglers that includes overland and sea travel. Syrian migrants are relatively better off than West Africans, and may pay more to guarantee a place on the top deck of a vessel. Africans are more often locked in the hold and are more vulnerable if a vessel sinks, or consigned to an inflatable dinghy. Fearing arrest, the smugglers rarely travel on the boats themselves, instead giving a compass or GPS device to the migrants, who then set off with no navigational skills and often no experience of the sea in boats that should never have left port. As Libya becomes more dangerous for migrants, other countries on both sides of the Mediterranean are looking on anxiously. Some West Africans opt to travel through Morocco -- even though the chances of detection there are much greater and the sea crossing to Spain very difficult. ``A migrant might need 50 or 60 attempts before making it to the Spanish coast,'' says Malakooti. Tunisia has massively increased security along its eastern border with Libya ; both Algeria and Morocco have begun building fences along their border -- against both terrorism and clandestine migration. But they may be little deterrent. The Eritrean writer Abu Bakr Khaal made the desperate voyage to and across the Mediterranean himself. In his novel ``African Titanics,'' he describes the ``dangerous lure'' of escape. Only too late do the migrants discover a grim reality at sea :. '' `If God loved me he would not have brought me here,' groaned one of the passengers. Assured he had uttered the most fitting farewell to life, he threw himself into the sea. The boat moved forward at the whim of the waves.''. Meet the couple on a mission to save drowning migrants.
( CNN ) A 24-year-old man is in custody after he called for an ambulance, only to have French authorities come and discover weapons, ammunition and evidence of his plans to target churches -- an attack that someone in Syria requested, a top prosecutor said Wednesday. The man was identified later as Sid Ahmed Ghlam, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve told television broadcaster TF1. Paris Prosecutor Francois Molins said Ghlam asked for medical help at his home in Paris' 13th district Sunday morning, claiming he had accidentally injured himself when he mishandled a weapon. But authorities found more than a man with a gunshot wound in his thigh. Molins said Ghlam was someone suspected of killing a 32-year-old woman hours earlier and who then intended to launch a larger-scale terror attack in the near future. '' ( He ) let them believe that he was the victim,'' French President Francois Hollande said Wednesday. ``But police understood that there was an investigation that needed to be initiated.''. That probe started in earnest when police spotted traces of blood and bags in the suspect's car. Based on this discovery ``and in view of the attitude and suspicious behavior of the individual,'' they looked inside the car and found a loaded Kalashnikov gun, a 9-mm revolver, three cell phones, a laptop, a USB key, a satellite navigation system ``and handwritten documents that contained information on possible targets,'' Molins said. A search inside his home turned up yet more potentially key evidence, including three more Kalashnikovs, three bulletproof vests, police armbands, a camera, some 2,000 euros in cash and ``documents in Arabic mentioning al Qaeda and ISIS,'' according to the prosecutor. ``A terrorist attack has been foiled,'' Hollande said. ``It's not the first time.''. Earlier Ghlam was identified as a computer science student originally from Algeria. According to Molins, he lived in that North African country until 2001, joined his parents in France for the next two years, then went back to Algeria. He got his undergraduate degree in that nation, then returned to France to study electronics. He'd never been convicted of a crime ; in fact, the lone accusation against him in August 2013 was later withdrawn. But that didn't mean French authorities didn't know about Ghlam. ``He had been noticed wishing to go to Syria,'' Molins explained. The prosecutor added that authorities found nothing to suggest he was imminent threat, ``but he was under surveillance.''. Law enforcement checked on the man once in 2014 and again this year, Cazeneuve said. The minister said the man planned to head to Syria, a country embroiled in a bloody, years-long civil war that has attracted foreigners wishing to join extremist militant groups like ISIS. There was no indication he ever made it. But, Molins said, computer searches revealed that the man had been communicating with someone in Syria who ``asked him to target a church.''. What church ? Authorities didn't disclose that detail on Wednesday, though Molins did say ``this target was confirmed by ( the suspect's satellite navigation system ) and handwritten documents in his car.''. Paris is home to the famed Notre Dame cathedral and Sacre Coeur basilica, both huge draws for tourists. It's not known if either were in line to be attacked, but Prime Minister Manuel Valls Wednesday visited one of the churches allegedly targeted, which was located in the Paris suburb of Villejuif. Assuming Ghlam doesn't walk free anytime soon -- for now, he's in custody awaiting possible charges -- that attack won't happen anytime soon. But authorities say he's already claimed at least one victim. Her name is Aurelie Chatelain. The 32-year-old was found dead Sunday morning sitting in the passenger seat of a parked car in Villejuif, killed by a single bullet that struck her shoulder, went through her body and ended up embedded in the seat. Cazeneuve said Chatelain was the mother of a 5-year-old girl and had come to the region on Saturday to attend a training class. It's not known what connection, if any, she had with the suspect. Nonetheless, Molins said that ballistics, DNA, satellite navigation and other evidence connected him to the death of Chatelain, who Molins called the region's first victim of terrorism since January. That's when the massacre at Charlie Hebdo's offices and the siege of a kosher market in Paris took place, prompting French authorities to beef up security measures. ``France, like other countries, is facing a terror threat that is unprecedented in its nature and magnitude,'' Valls said.''.. Terrorists are targeting France to divide us.''. CNN's Jethro Mullen, Andrew Carey, Sandrine Amiel and Ariana Williams contributed to this report.
Jerusalem ( CNN ) The flame of remembrance burns in Jerusalem, and a song of memory haunts Valerie Braham as it never has before. This year, Israel's Memorial Day commemoration is for bereaved family members such as Braham. ``Now I truly understand everyone who has lost a loved one,'' Braham said. Her husband, Philippe Braham, was one of 17 people killed in January's terror attacks in Paris. He was in a kosher supermarket when a gunman stormed in, killing four people, all of them Jewish. The terrorist, Amedy Coulibaly, recorded the attack on camera. Philippe Braham was laid to rest in Jerusalem's Givat Shaul cemetery after the attacks, not far from where the Jewish Agency held a memorial ceremony to mourn victims of terror. ``Today we all share the same pain,'' Valerie Braham said to the assembled crowd. ``I know they protect us from above.''. As Israel mourns on the nation's remembrance day, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls announced after his weekly Cabinet meeting that French authorities had foiled a terror plot. Valls said that France is fully mobilized following January's attack, which allowed authorities to identify and stop the planned attack. The latest news is a painful reminder of Braham's recent loss. Braham now lives for her young children. She has two daughters and one son. Braham tells them stories of their father to keep his memory alive and to keep herself strong. She pauses as she speaks, finding the right words to describe the love of her life who was taken from her. ``We had 10 years of marriage together, and we were a perfect couple. We had no problems. We didn't fight. It was like the day we were married,'' she said, holding back tears. She has told this story before, but it doesn't seem to get any easier. One month after the terror attacks in Paris, a gunman attacked a synagogue in Copenhagen, Denmark, killing Dan Uzan, who was working as a security guard for a bat mitzvah party. Uzan, 37, was laid to rest in Copenhagen. Like Valerie Braham, Uzan's parents attended the memorial service in Jerusalem. The recent attacks were on the nation's collective mind as mourners gathered in groups to commemorate fallen soldiers and victims of terror. The Copenhagen attack forced Braham to relive her fear. ``I have no idea,'' she said, hesitating. ``It seems they found a way to attack outside of war. It seems easy for them to attack, and it's frightening.''. When asked where she feels at home, Braham doesn't hesitate. It is her most confident answer. ``In Israel. Obviously, in Israel. In God's name, we will move to Israel.''. Braham said she will move her family from Paris to Israel when she is ready, but she does not want to feel like she is running away.
Jerusalem ( CNN ) A Palestinian teenager's name will be removed from an Israeli memorial commemorating fallen soldiers and the victims of terrorism after his family and others complained. Mohammed Abu Khdeir's name appeared this week on the wall at Jerusalem's Mount Herzl, the site of the national cemetery, as the nation prepared to mark its Memorial Day on Wednesday. Abu Khdeir, 16, was beaten and burned alive by three Israelis in July, according to prosecutors. A picture on the memorial website for Abu Khdeir shows an Israeli flag with two flowers called ``Blood of the Maccabees'' in Israel, a symbol often used on Memorial Day, when the country honors its soldiers killed in the line of duty and victims of terrorism. But Abu Khdeir's family objected to his inclusion on the memorial wall. His father, Hussein Abu Khdeir, said no one asked for his permission to put his son's name on the wall. ``I refuse that my son's name will be listed between soldiers of the occupation,'' he said. Almagor, an organization that works on behalf of victims of terror in Israel, also opposes Abu Khdeir's inclusion on the memorial. Almagor described the teen's death as a rogue attack and said he's not a terror victim. ``Somebody did here a trick, and we are going to fight to correct it,'' said Almagor CEO Meir Indor. ``We will not recognize someone who was murdered in a brutal way in an individual action.''. Indor's organization wrote a letter to the National Insurance Institute of Israel -- the country's social security administration, which maintains the memorial site -- demanding that Abu Khdeir's name be removed from the memorial wall. Indor said if the teenager's name is not taken off, members of Almagor want their own family members' names removed. On Wednesday, Israel Radio reported that the National Insurance Institute of Israel will remove Abu Khdeir's name from the memorial following his father's complaints. The teen's name has already been removed from the organization's website, which lists the names on the memorial wall. A panel of judges began hearing evidence in January against the three suspects in Abu Khdeir's killing.
( CNN ) Looks like another really, really, ridiculously good-looking person is joining the cast of ``Zoolander 2.''. Actress Penelope Cruz will appear in the upcoming sequel to the popular 2001 film, Ben Stiller announced Friday. Stiller, who plays the title role of male model Derek Zoolander, dropped the news by sharing a photo of ``Little Penny'' Cruz as a child and saying he was ``excited'' to welcome her to the cast. Stiller and Owen Wilson, who plays so-hot-right-now model ``Hansel'' made a surprise appearance at Paris Fashion Week to promote the film. It is scheduled for release in February 2016. Stiller has been sharing photos on social media from the film's production in Italy, dropping hints to the plot. For example, it looks like Zoolander has a son in the sequel !. Stiller, a producer on the film, is also slated to produce the sequel to ``Dodgeball,'' another fan favorite from his resume.
( CNN ) A Saudi-led coalition Tuesday ended its ``Operation Decisive Storm'' -- its nearly monthlong airstrike campaign in Yemen -- and a new initiative is underway. ``Operation Renewal of Hope'' will focus on the political process. Saudi Arabia had launched airstrikes on Houthi positions across Yemen, hoping to wipe out the Iranian-allied rebel group that has overthrown the government and seized power. The Saudis say they want to restore the Yemeni government, a key U.S. ally in the fight against al Qaeda, which was kicked out of the capital by the rebels earlier this year. This month, Saudi officials said airstrikes have degraded Houthi-controlled military infrastructure, including key buildings in the capital Sanaa. The campaign achieved its objectives ``by a very good planning, very precise execution, by the courage of our pilots, our sailors, our soldiers,'' said Brig. Gen. Ahmed Asiri, a Saudi military spokesman. A senior Saudi official told CNN that the Houthis agreed to ``nearly all demands'' of the U.N. Security Council. Former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh and his family will leave Yemen and never return for a position in politics, the source said. A statement from the Saudi Embassy in Washington outlined objectives of the next phase of operations, including protecting civilians, enhancing humanitarian and medical assistance, confronting terrorism and creating an international coalition to provide maritime security. Ground troops will continue to protect the border and confront any attempts to destabilize the situation, Asiri said. Military action will be taken if needed. But beyond the military campaign, the Saudis and their allies have said they want to find a political solution for the violence-plagued nation. The aim is to bring back Yemen's ``security and stability through establishing a political process,'' said a statement from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait. Ousted Yemen President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi thanked the Saudi-led coalition. Hadi claims he's Yemen's legitimate leader and is working with the Saudis and other allies to return to his country. ``We promise to restructure the Yemen military to ensure that it serves the people of Yemen,'' Hadi said, calling on the Houthis to withdraw, and saying that he would return to Yemen at ``the right time'' to rebuild the country. ``You will witness many changes in the days to come in our mission to build an institutional government and military, far from rebel militancy,'' said Hadi. Also Tuesday, a U.S. military official told CNN that the United States is conducting ``manned reconnaissance'' off Yemen. The official stressed that the repositioning of U.S. ships over the last days was not done to interdict Iranian ships, but to ensure freedom of navigation and maritime security. Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen ?. CNN's Jethro Mullen, Tim Lister, Anas Hamdan, Jamie Crawford and journalist Hakim Almasmari contributed to this report.
( CNN ) He was known as the American mouthpiece of al Qaeda, speaking against his native country on behalf of a terrorist organization that's devoted blood and resources to attacking it. But not anymore. The White House announced Thursday that Adam Gadahn, 36, was killed in January in a U.S. government counterterrorism operation. Neither he nor Ahmed Farouq -- another U.S. citizen and al Qaeda operative who died in what the White House said was ``likely a separate'' operation -- was specifically targeted, according to the statement. Warren Weinstein, a U.S. citizen who was abducted by al Qaeda in Pakistan in 2011, died along with another hostage, Italian Giovanni Lo Porto, in the attack that killed Farouq, according to the White House. White House : U.S. hostage killed in strike on al Qaeda. While he wasn't one of al Qaeda's top leaders, Gadahn was one of its most prominent members, given his many statements on behalf of the organization. Also known as Azzam the American, he was born in 1978. His parents changed their name from Pearlman to Gadahn after their marriage. He grew up on a farm in rural California and at age 18 moved in with his paternal grandparents, who were Jewish. He converted to Islam in 1995 and left the United States for Pakistan three years later. His father said Gadahn last contacted the family in 2002. A former al Qaeda member who later grew disillusioned with the group told CNN terrorism analyst Paul Cruickshank that he was tasked with greeting Gadahn at Peshawar airport in September 1998. Gadahn, who'd just just turned 20, had taken flights from the United States to London, then on to Karachi and Peshawar. The former operative planned to take Gadahn to a pizzeria after he landed, before accompanying him by bus to al Qaeda's encampments in Afghanistan. But Gadahn told him he'd been longing for some Afghan food, so they went to an Afghan restaurant instead before setting out on the road. The former operative said that after Gadahn joined al Qaeda, he was known as Abu Suhayb. In the years after 9/11, Gadahn rose through the ranks in the tribal areas of Pakistan, becoming its chief official English-language propagandist. He emerged in the mid-2000s on al Qaeda videos, including ones threatening attacks on Los Angeles and Melbourne, Australia. At first he was disguised. Sometimes he spoke in English, but in other videos he spoke in Arabic. He urged Muslims to target American, Western and Jewish interests with hopes of toppling the regime in Pakistan, according to SITE, a group that monitors terrorists and terror activity online. A federal grand jury in California indicted Gadahn in 2006 for treason and material support to al Qaeda, charges related to his alleged involvement in terrorist activities that included ``providing aid and comfort'' and other services to al Qaeda, the FBI said. He was among the FBI's ``Most Wanted Terrorists.''. In 2007, he appeared on another al Qaeda video in which he warned America to end its involvement in the affairs of predominantly Muslim countries. ``Your failure to heed our demands.. means that you and your people will.. experience things which will make you forget about the horrors of September 11, Afghanistan and Iraq and Virginia Tech,'' he said, the last reference being to the mass shooting at the Virginia university in 2007. In separate videos over the years, he criticized President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama, whom he called ``a devious, evasive and serpentine American president with a Muslim name.''. He also addressed his Jewish ancestry and tore up his U.S. passport on camera. Gadahn appeared in videos commemorating the 9/11 attacks, some which included al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri. He urged Muslims in the United States to stage their own lone-wolf attacks. ``America is absolutely awash with easily obtainable firearms,'' he said. ``You can go down to a gun show at the local convention center and come away with a fully automatic assault rifle without a background check and most likely without having to show an identification card. So what are you waiting for ?''. In other videos, he called Nidal Hasan, the Army officer sentenced to death in the 2009 shootings at Fort Hood, Texas, ``the ideal role model for every repentant Muslim in the armies of the unbelievers and apostate regimes,'' and praised the 2012 killing of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens in Benghazi, Libya. His final video was posted online in September 2014 by al Qaeda media wing al Sahab. He called for Muslims to work to overthrow governments in Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. Cruickshank said Gadahn had begun to play an increasingly prominent institutional role inside al Qaeda. Among the documents recovered from Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad after bin Laden's death was a 2011 letter from Gadahn making recommendations for al Qaeda's media strategy. Gadahn was married to a Muslim woman from Afghanistan and reportedly had at least one child. CNN's Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
Seoul, South Korea ( CNN ) On March 20, 2013, a cyberattack brought chaos to several banks and media outlets in South Korea. Then more ominously on December 23 last year, computers at the country's nuclear operator were breached. Again cybercrime was suspected. The source of these attacks ? North Korea. And South Korean investigators say they have proof -- the actual malicious codes used in the attacks. They shared this data with CNN. The 2013 attack, known as ``Dark Seoul,'' paralyzed an estimated 48,000 computers at a number of major banks and broadcasters, disrupting network systems and wiping their hard disks clean. ``It would try to delete essentially all your files.. then restart the system. You would come back up and nothing would be there,'' Joshua James, a digital forensic expert, told CNN. ``If it infected more financial systems, it could have deleted all financial data in Korea. I mean, it is dangerous,'' the visiting professor at Chuncheon's Hallym University added. Live footage of the breaches showed computer screens at the media companies completely down, while bank customers were unable to make withdrawals, or transfer money online. ``Dark Seoul'' happened shortly after the North Korean government announced it would end the armistice agreement that brought the three-year Korean War to an end in July 1953 amid growing tensions with its neighbor. The latest high-profile digital incursion, in December, attempted to steal data from South Korea's nuclear operator, including plant blueprints and personnel information. Though investigators said no critical data was stolen, the attack raised serious concerns about the safety and security of the 23 nuclear power plants it runs. The attack itself was described by James as a ``spear-fishing'' exercise where unsuspecting victims -- retired and current employees of the nuclear operator -- were prompted to open up a disguised document in their email. ``As soon as you double click on it, it starts running in the background of your computer where you can't see.. it's also trying to open up your computer -- what we call a back door -- to give access to the infected system by the attacker,'' he told CNN. The attack, which James said was simpler than ``Dark Seoul,'' came just a few days after Sony Pictures said their systems has been ``hacked,'' another attack the South Korean authorities blamed on North Korea. ``From a law enforcement or investigation side, we're trying to actually trace back to who did it,'' said James. Seoul announced in mid-March that some of the IP addresses used in December incursion could be traced back to Shenyang, China, which can be easily accessed from the North Korean border. Codes used in the attack were said to be similar in pattern to those used by the North Koreans, South Korean authorities said. ``The malicious codes used in the attack were same in composition and working methods as ``Kimsuky'' codes known to be used by North Korea,'' the prosecutor's office that leads 17 other government agencies and Internet companies in the investigation said in the statement in March. Pyongyang has dismissed the claims it launched these attacks, calling them a ``plot and fabrication that can never win over the truth.''. But many experts say North Korea appears to be investing more in cyberwarfare because it is cheaper than spending on conventional weapons and can cause significant economic damage to its southern rival. Indeed South Korea's Defense Ministry estimates that North Korea is operating a ``cyberarmy'' of 6,000 workers as it focuses on strengthening its asymmetrical warfare capability. ``Hacks are going on all the time, constantly -- though how many actually make the news is a very small amount,'' said James. ``How many are detected in general ? I think the average person would have no clue they've been hacked. ``Organizations need to invest the same amount that hackers are investing to protect themselves and right now they're not,'' he added. Many in South Korea believe not enough effort is being put into defending against cyberattacks. A report by the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade, a government-funded think tank, estimates that ``Dark Seoul'' caused about $ 820 million worth of damage. Its report, published in 2014, predicted that by 2020, South Korea could be exposed to hacking attacks causing up to $ 25 billion in economic damage.
( CNN ) It's only a few weeks since the first presidential announcement but already it feels like the campaign is in high gear. A number of politicians have officially announced their candidacies and the outline of their messages is starting to emerge. Hillary Clinton, who announced last week, even jumped into her black van for a road trip out to Iowa, including a pit stop at Chipotle along the way. Although the campaign has barely begun, most of the candidates -- and some probable candidates -- are already starting to make mistakes. Most of the mistakes will simply be blips along the way, but some of them might end up being more damaging if they feed into negative perceptions that voters have about the candidates. Here are a few notable mistakes in the past few weeks :. Trying to separate himself from the pack, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie called for substantial cuts to Social Security. He also promised to reverse the marijuana legalization laws that many states have been enacting in response to ballot initiatives. Both of these statements could come back to bite him, should he run for president. While Christie sees Social Security cuts as a way to ``go big'' in crafting a platform for a possible presidential run, as many Republicans have discovered Social Security is a very popular program and one that has strong support from Americans who are over 60 -- a big part of the electorate. On marijuana legalization, Christie inserted himself into an issue that has growing public support in red and blue states, especially with the younger and independent voters who Christie is promising to bring into a potential campaign. If Christie continues to veer right it will be harder to sell himself as the moderate in the race, and yet there is little chance that he will secure conservative votes over someone like Sen. Ted Cruz. Sen. Cruz impressed many observers when he announced his candidacy at Liberty University. But soon after he did something that took many people by surprise. The Texas senator, who has been one of the leading opponents of President Barack Obama's health care plan, acknowledged that he would be enrolling in the Affordable Care Act program since his wife was taking a leave of absence from her job to help with the campaign. It will be hard for him to live this one down. Since he wants to sell himself as the authentic conservative and the Republican who will give Democrats their biggest toughest fight, the fact that he decided to join a program he has railed against -- and tied up Congress with -- will raise questions about whether he is just another politician, and not a true zealot over Obamacare. The decision will offer plenty of fodder to Democrats who want to remind voters that Republicans rail against government even when they and their constituents depend on it. If anyone faces authenticity questions, it is Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul. As the so-called ``libertarian'' in the campaign, Paul is aiming to attract younger Republicans who otherwise are not interested in the party. He is also hoping to bring back hard-core anti-government conservatives who believed that their party has moved too far away from their original goals. Paul has already struggled to justify some of his recent announcements, such as calling for a more aggressive war against ISIS and his statements against gay marriage. But after announcing his presidency, he brought himself more trouble with his aggressive interaction with ``Today'' host Savannah Guthrie. Paul became clearly aggravated with what the host and went so far as go explain how to conduct the interview. The interview focused most media attention on Paul's temper and his interactions with women rather than his message. In an interview on CNBC, he put his finger to his lips and said ``Shhh, calm down'' to anchor Kelly Evans. Both moments revealed a side of his character than until that moment had been somewhat off the radar. ``You're coming off as pretty thin-skinned in your interviews,'' Megyn Kelly of Fox News told the senator. Thus far, Clinton has had a fairly smooth opening but during her first week on the trail, she did make a minor mistake. While speaking in Norwalk, Iowa, Clinton said during a discussion about immigration reform that ``all my grandparents, you know, came over here'' even though only one was really an immigrant. Her staff corrected the statements. ``Her grandparents always spoke about the immigrant experience and, as a result she has always thought of them as immigrants. As has been correctly pointed out, while her grandfather was an immigrant, it appears that Hillary's grandmother was born shortly after her parents and siblings arrived in the U.S. in the early 1880s.''. Clinton's campaign video seemed pitch perfect to many observers, as she largely removed herself from the story line. Her drive to Iowa demonstrated that she isn't likely to repeat the kinds of mistakes that she made in 2008 when she failed to take the nuts and bolts of caucus organization seriously. Although the entire opening certainly had the flavor of a made for television event, it has generally been well-received. Clearly the biggest ``gaffe'' in the run-up to the Clinton campaign was in how she handled the story of her use of a private server rather than the State Department email system. Although she dragged out the campaign announcement, she certainly should have had more of the team in place given how much attention she would receive. At first she stumbled in her response, giving the accusers time to spin the story as reflecting a tendency to hide information and suggesting that she was still the untruthful person so many people suspected. Rubio announced his presidential run after the biggest announcement of them all : Hillary Clinton. Given that Rubio is not one of the most well-known of the candidates, outside of Republican political circles, his timing was not perfect. The announcement was overshadowed by Clinton's video and drive to Iowa. Coming on the heels of Obama's historic discussions with Cuba, the timing and sequence didn't help the senator to get the kind of initial buzz that he was hoping for. Although in the long run this won't make a difference, it might have been wise for him to delay the announcement and give his campaign some breathing space. All of these are still relatively small missteps in the very start of the campaign. And we know from social scientists than individual gaffes and mistakes don't really have a big impact on the outcome of these contests, so much as the ``fundamentals'' like the ability to raise campaign contributions and the endorsements from political elites. Still, mistakes can play a role in campaigns. While individual mistakes might be fleeting, collectively, these kinds of moments can shape how voters think of candidates when the time comes for a vote.
( CNN ) Was it politics or something else ?. No one is sure, but the headstone of Hillary Clinton's father, Hugh Rodham, was found tipped over this week, just a couple of days after she announced her run for the White House. ``It was just laying down just right like that, boom,'' Paul McGloin told CNN affiliate WNEP. ``I pass here five, six times a day because I live two blocks from here and when I looked I couldn't believe it, to see that it was tipped over.''. McGloin said he's tended to the grave site at the Washburn Street Cemetery in Scranton, Pennsylvania, since Rodham was buried there in 1993. Police are investigating, but no other headstones were knocked over. Police Chief Carl Graziano told The Scranton Times-Tribune that he suspects vandalism. ``I'm not sure how else it would have fallen over,'' he said. Still, police will look into the possibility that it was weather-related. Funeral director Neil Regan also said vandalism is the most-likely cause, not the weather. ``The more I thought about it, there were no serious winds or weather events,'' he said. ``Paul McGloin told me he had driven by here 8 o'clock ( Monday ) morning and the stone was in place.''. McGloin believes it's no coincidence that it happened within days of Clinton announcing her second presidential bid. ``And all of a sudden the headstone is tipped over, two days later,'' he said. ``As long as I `ve been coming here, the headstone has been pretty secure around the base of it.''. CNN's Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A family trip to a Nebraska zoo turned terrifying for one family after the gorilla they were looking at leaped toward the exhibit window, cracking it. Kevin Cave caught the incident on video that he posted on his Reddit page. It has already been viewed more than 1 million times. Cave said when his family first arrived at Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo gorilla exhibit, he noticed one of the gorillas had a cut below his eye that was ``bleeding a little bit.''. He said he overheard a couple of zookeepers say the gorillas had been fighting with one another. Then the gorilla -- named Kijoto -- charged toward the window and smacked into it, he said. The leap sent the family and other patrons running, but Cave said when he looked back, ``it wasn't as bad as we thought it was.''. Dan Cassidy with the Henry Doorly Zoo said he's been surprised by the attention since he considered the whole thing a ``nonevent.''. The group of male gorillas is known to have occasional skirmishes. ``They show how tough they are by pounding on the wall and the windows,'' Cassidy said. Even with the crack, the public was never in danger, he said, because the window has multiple layers of both glass and acrylic. Kijoto is a 20-year-old western lowland gorilla, according to a release on the zoo's website. He weighs 375 pounds.
Boston ( CNN ) When the bomb went off, Steve Woolfenden thought he was still standing. That was because, as he lay on the ground, he was still holding the handles of his son's stroller. He pulled back the stroller's cover and saw that his son, Leo, 3, was conscious but bleeding from the left side of his head. Woolfenden checked Leo for other injuries and thought, ``Let's get out of here.''. That was before he noticed his Achilles tendon, which resembled transparent tape covered in blood, and his left tibia protruding from his boot. The boot was next to his left stump, he testified before a federal jury Thursday, the third day in which survivors and family members of those killed in the Boston Marathon bombing shared their stories -- often gruesome and heartbreaking -- in the sentencing phase for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. The prosecution rested Thursday afternoon after attempting to convince jurors that Tsarnaev was cold-hearted and remorseless. The defense, led by famed death penalty opponent Judy Clarke, is expected to try to soften that portrayal by calling witnesses to explain Tsarnaev's difficult upbringing. Clarke will begin those efforts Monday. A group of Tsarnaev's relatives arrived at Boston's Logan International Airport on Thursday, CNN affiliate WHDH reported, but it's not clear if they plan to testify. The jury must decide whether the 21-year-old, who has been found guilty of perpetrating the attack with his now-deceased brother, will die for his crimes or spend his life in prison. Woolfenden, a biomedical researcher for the Novartis Institutes, recalled using his belt as a tourniquet on his leg and trying to comfort Leo. The boy cried, ``Mommy ! Daddy ! Mommy ! Daddy ! Mommy ! Daddy ! Mommy ! Daddy !'' he testified. Amid the stench of ``burning hair, blood, sulfur,'' a good Samaritan emerged. He gave Woolfenden another tourniquet and rushed Leo to safety. ``I was completely terrified because I didn't know if I was ever going to see my son again. There was blood all over the sidewalk, all around me,'' he said. Dr. David King, a trauma surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital, spent 14 years in the U.S. Army as a combat surgeon and served in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as in Haiti after the devastating 2010 earthquake. He has treated and operated on hundreds of troops injured by improvised explosive devices, he testified, and what he saw in Boston that day wasn't much different from the carnage he witnessed in war zones. ``I arrived just as the first wave of casualties had shown up,'' he said. ``I looked across the patients and I knew immediately, without anyone having to tell me, exactly what the wounding mechanism was.''. Heather Abbott had no such experience, so when one of the two bombs exploded, sending her through the doors of a restaurant and into a ``puddle of chaos and blood and glass,'' her instinct was to run. But she couldn't. Her foot felt like it was on fire, she testified. Two women helped her as she overheard someone saying a Hail Mary. She called for her husband. He picked her up and carried her out of the restaurant. ``I saw blood pouring out of my foot,'' she said. She finally got to a hospital, and after three attempts to save her foot, which was missing its entire heel, a doctor told her she had a decision : She could keep her leg and risk a life of excruciating pain or have it amputated below the knee. She chose the latter. ``It was probably the hardest decision I've had to make,'' she testified. Another marathon attendee rendered an amputee by the Tsarnaev brothers' attack, Marc Fucarile, recounted the two bombs going off. ``I stepped back, and the next thing I remember was looking up at the sky,'' he testified, adding that he remembered ``a lot of yelling, a lot of screaming, people crying out for tourniquets.''. A nurse was sitting on his chest, and someone said, ``Oh, s ***, he's on fire !''. He tried to undo his belt and got a third-degree burn because the buckle was so hot. A firefighter would later tell Fucarile that he handed his own right leg to the firefighter. He doesn't remember that. In addition to treating him for severe burns over much of his body, doctors had to cut off a bone and stretch muscle over the stub so that a prosthetic would fit. He still gets blisters. ``So where the prosthetic attaches on your butt, it rubs and breaks down and creates open wounds,'' he said. And though his left leg survived, it was severely burned, his calf muscle was blown off and his heel was shattered, he said. He hopes to save the left leg, he testified, but it's likely that it will have to be amputated above the knee. He takes more than 70 pills -- 24 pills in morning, 22 in afternoon, 26 at night -- to cope with his injuries, he said. One of the most dramatic points in Thursday's testimony involved the death of young Martin Richard. The prosecution showed close-up video of the 8-year-old, who was only 3 1/2 feet from one of the bombs, according to the FBI's re-creation of the crime scene. His parents, Bill and Denise, are opposed to Tsarnaev receiving the death penalty and did not participate in the penalty phase, though Bill Richard did testify during the guilt phase. Dr. King told the court that Martin was especially vulnerable to the blast because he was so small and close to the ground, meaning the shrapnel more easily reached his head and torso. It's highly unlikely the boy died instantly, King said. Explaining that Martin died of rapid blood loss, King testified, ``Receptors are generally not responsive to cutting. If you happen to be awake and someone cuts your bowel or liver, it generally does not hurt. What hurts is the stretching and twisting.. Intestines were pulled and twisted ; that would have caused visceral type pain.''. Woolfenden, the biomedical researcher, recalled seeing Martin and his mother shortly after the good Samaritan took Woolfenden's son, Leo, to safety. ``I saw Martin's face, and I could see a boy that looked like he was fatally injured,'' he said,. Martin's hair was singed, his eyes had rolled back into his head and his mouth was agape. As for Martin's torso, ``I saw an immense amount of blood. I was really, really terrified,'' Woolfenden said. He recalled Denise Richard pleading with her son, saying, ``please'' and ``Martin'' over and over. Woolfenden placed his hand on Denise Richard's back, he said. She turned to ask Woolfenden if he was OK. He said he was, and she turned her attention back to Martin. But no response came. According to testimony, Martin's aorta was nearly severed and he was eviscerated by shrapnel from the blast. He bled to death on the sidewalk, and the last thing he probably felt was excruciating pain from the force of the blast twisting his internal organs. CNN's Patrick Cornell contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The world's seventh-largest economy is heading toward collapse. An economic powerhouse conservatively valued at $ 24 trillion, one that annually churns out the equivalent of $ 2.5 trillion, is under assault. However, I am not referring to one of the G8 economies, but to the ``super economy'' of the ocean. It's one that for far too long has been ignored and taken for granted -- and it is going downhill fast. The health and wealth of the ocean are assessed in a WWF report released Thursday, Reviving the Ocean Economy. The report is the result of a hard economic analysis performed by The Boston Consulting Group built on a foundation of the latest ocean science provided by the Global Change Institute of the University of Queensland. True, the enormity of the ocean can complicate any single appraisal. But it is still important to try to understand its value if global leaders are ever going to sustain it for future generations. The fact is that the ocean feeds us, employs us, offers protection and plays a direct role in the lives and livelihoods of people throughout the world. The ocean also provides intangible but essential services to humanity, such as climate regulation and oxygen production, that are difficult to put in monetary terms. And while we all may look at the ocean from different perspectives, no one can escape the fact that it is a shared resource that provides for each and every one of us. A figure that may get lost in the headlines generated by our report is perhaps most telling : Seventy percent of the ocean's overall economic value relies on its continued health. Ocean assets like fisheries, coral reefs, mangroves and seagrasses that produce goods and services rivaling the world's top 10 economies will lose their value if we continue to over-exploit and outright destroy them. That may seem like a far-off possibility to some, but it is a future foretold by the many details in this report. For example, 90 percent of the world's fish stocks are either fully exploited or over-exploited. And that is not all. By 2050 -- only a few decades from now -- it is possible that the ocean could lose its coral reefs, which have already been halved in the last few decades. This isn't just a concern for dive enthusiasts, but to the hundreds of millions of people that rely on ocean resources for their daily meals and their weekly paychecks. The ocean is truly too big to fail. The loss of the ocean's critical habitats and species would have a devastating ripple effect on global food security and economies that no government bailout could salvage. Fortunately, our report identifies actions that would revive the ocean economy, three of which are critical this year. First, the international community must rally around a set of sustainable development goals that clearly reflect the link between the environment -- including the ocean -- and human well-being. Also, negotiators meeting in Paris later this year must agree on an ambitious global climate deal that sets us on the path to avert the worst impacts of climate change. And finally, leaders must commit to conserving increasing amounts of coastal and marine areas over the course of the next 15 years. The economic case for why the ocean is so critical to livelihoods around the world is clear, and we will not be able to plead ignorance if we collectively preside over the collapse of the ocean economy. Reviving the Ocean Economy is dedicated to helping us avoid that outcome, but it will require political vision and courage among policymakers. All this said, and as terrifying as it is that the deterioration of the ocean's health has been its fastest in millions of years, there is actually some ( potential ) good news : If we act swiftly and with determination, marine resources can recover -- and recover quickly. Many local examples -- from the Mediterranean to the Mozambique Channel, from the Fiji archipelago to the Arctic -- show us that conservation, restoration and sustainable-use approaches mean the ocean, and the people who depend on it, can both prosper. Ultimately, the ocean bridges continents, connects cultures and offers equal opportunity inspiration and we should therefore work together in support of this vital shared resource. But if we are to have any chance of avoiding the point of no return, we must find ways of reaching genuine global commitments on sustainable development and climate. After all, it's far better to avoid an economic collapse than be forced to scramble to pick up the pieces.
( CNN ) Relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia have always been thorny, but rarely has the state of affairs been as venomous as it is today. Tehran and Riyadh each point to the other as the main reason for much of the turmoil in the Middle East. In its most recent incarnation, the Iranian-Saudi conflict by proxy has reached Yemen in a spiral that both sides portray as climatic. For Riyadh and its regional allies, the Saudi military intervention in Yemen -- ``Operation Decisive Storm'' -- is the moment the Sunni Arab nation finally woke up to repel the expansion of Shia-Iranian influence. For Tehran and its regional allies -- including the Houthi movement in Yemen -- Saudi Arabia's actions are in defense of a retrogressive status quo order that is no longer tenable. And yet both sides have good reasons to want to stop the Yemeni crisis from spiraling out of control and evolving into an unwinnable war. When Iranian President Hassan Rouhani was elected in June 2013, he pledged to reach out to Riyadh. He was up front and called Tehran's steep deterioration of relations with the Saudis over the last decade as one of the principal burdens on Iranian foreign policy. From Lebanon and Afghanistan to Pakistan and the Gaza Strip, the Iranian-Saudi rivalry and conflict through proxy has been deep and costly. And yet despite Rouhani's open pledge, profound differences over Syria and Iraq in particular have kept Riyadh and Tehran apart. But if the questions of Syria and Iraq prevented a pause in hostilities, the Saudi military intervention in Yemen since late March has all but raised the stakes to unprecedentedly dangerous levels. Unlike in Syria and in Iraq, the Saudi military is now directly battling it out with Iranian-backed rebels in Yemen. While Riyadh no doubt exaggerates Tehran's role in the Yemen crisis, its fingerprints are nonetheless evident. ``Iran provides financial support, weapons, training and intelligence to Houthis,'' Gerald Feierstein, a U.S. State Department official and former Yemen ambassador, told a Congressional hearing last week. ``We believe that Iran sees opportunities with the Houthis to expand its influence in Yemen and threaten Saudi and Gulf Arab interests.''. The Iranians find the charges biased and point to the Saudi airstrikes in Yemen as a much bigger case of meddling in a neighbor's affairs. In Iran, the cue came from the country's top authority, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has been unusually blunt. He tweeted : ``Despite disputes, the Saudis used to display composure -LSB- with -RSB- us but now inexperienced youngsters have come to power & replaced composure -LSB- with -RSB- barbarism.''. Three days after Khamenei's speech, Iran suspended religious pilgrimages to Mecca. This came as news broke about two Iranian teenage boys who had reportedly been sexually assaulted by the police while visiting Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile, anti-Saudi protests have been staged in a number of Iranian cities. Khamenei's speech opened the floodgate of anti-Saudi statements. The voices of hardline figures in Tehran have been the most agitated. General Ahmad Purdastan, the commander of the Iranian ground forces, taunted the Saudis. ``Beware of the day when firecrackers explode in Riyadh,'' Purdastan said, in a not-so-subtle warning. But it was not only the hawks that came out swinging against the Saudis. Ayatollah Ali-Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former president and arguably Iran's most vocal advocate of better Iranian-Saudi relations. called Riyadh's military intervention a ``strategic mistake'' and urged for a political solution. Seeking a political solution is Iran's stated aim for the Yemeni crisis, but the prospects of such an effort succeeding are slim. Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif has provided a four-point plan : to get a ceasefire, to encourage the provision of humanitarian aid, to promote political dialogue among warring Yemeni parties, and to achieve the formation of an inclusive government. But the Iranian proposal also asks for an end to Saudi airstrikes. As Zarif put it, ``Iran and Saudi Arabia need to talk, but we can not talk to determine the future of Yemen.''. The Saudis have thus far ignored the Iranian proposal. Meanwhile, the Houthi leadership has welcomed the plan. As one of its leaders said, ``In Iran's plan, unacceptable solutions do not exist.''. Not only do the Saudis not have any faith in any Iranian-drafted political package that is welcomed by the Houthis, but Riyadh believes that the international disposition favors it. Saudi Arabia was elated by the U.N. Security Council vote on 14 April that condemned the Houthi movement. Only Russia abstained. But a solution to the Yemeni crisis will not come from the U.N. The U.N. can provide a cover for Riyadh's military intervention, but it can not secure it a military win. This leaves Riyadh with a fundamental question about how far it is willing to take its fight in Yemen. Saudi airstrikes alone will not finish off the Houthi movement and it allies in the Yemeni armed forces. It requires ground troops on a huge scale. Riyadh has tried hard to muster a military coalition that is willing to dispatch ground troops but its effort has so far been nothing short of a fiasco. The Pakistanis most famously turned down the Saudi request and let it be known that Yemen is a quagmire they can do without. Instead, Islamabad has asked Iran to push the Houthis for a political compromise that Riyadh can live with. The Turks were enthusiastic at first about stopping the Houthis -- but in his visit to Tehran last week, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan made it clear that he has prioritized Iranian-Turkish trade relations over rivalry in Yemen, and emphasized a political solution for the Yemeni conflict. The Egyptians and the Jordanians are still supportive of Saudi efforts and claim publicly to be open to the idea of deploying military forces to assist Riyadh in Yemen. But whether they will go through with it is another matter. Egypt has a long list of problems of its own, including a bloody counter-terrorism campaign in Sinai that it can not afford to lose, but also an eastern border with lawless Libya that is increasingly a new front in Cairo's fight against jihadists. It is hard to see how Egyptian General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi can commit troops to a Yemeni campaign that is not a direct threat to Egypt's security. The same kind of domestic realities, including the threat from ISIS, will also prevent Jordan from any significant contribution to Saudi military efforts in Yemen. These hard realities leave Riyadh with two options. It can look for or even mediate a political solution that will invariably include the same Houthis that Riyadh is attacking today. Alternatively, given the absence of willing states to contribute ground troops, Riyadh will have to contemplate a full-scale invasion of Yemen. That is scenario that is very hard to contemplate. The Iranians too are faced with stark choices. It is beyond Tehran's ability to tame the Yemeni crisis. As tempting as it might be for Tehran to see the Saudis bleed in Yemen, the danger of this conflict further fuelling sectarian tensions in the Middle East will undermine broader regional Iranian interests. A political compromise that both Riyadh and Tehran and their respective Yemeni allies can live with seems to be the only option that is not cataclysmic.
( CNN ) Geography is, in part, destiny for Italy : The country will always be a bridge between Africa and Europe, as the ongoing humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean so starkly shows. A surge of refugees this year, usually transported by smugglers on overcrowded vessels, has sought to reach Europe via the Libyan coast. A boatload of 900 migrants who embarked from Libya are now feared dead in the latest sinking. Over 10,000 were rescued off the coast of Italy in the last week alone. European leaders are scrambling to deal with this emergency. There is a backstory here worthy of our attention, and it has to do with Italy's colonial past. Many of the refugees involved in recent disasters come from some of Italy's former colonies in North and East Africa, namely Eritrea ( occupied from 1890-1941 ) and Somalia ( 1908-1941 ). As migrants, Libyans are fewer in number, but Libya ( 1912-1941 ) plays a central role in the current crisis as the main departure point for Italy. Italy's empire never rivaled that of the British and the French in scope and longevity, but those who lived in its possessions were no less affected. Indeed, the migrants traversing the Mediterranean today form part of a century-long chain of migrations, expulsions, and exiles sparked by Italy's imperial ambition and commercial interests, the post-colonial anger of African leaders, and now mass economic desperation and political strife. Long after the formal end of Italian colonialism, these Eritreans, Somalis, and Libyans have inherited the histories of influence and exploitation that shaped their home countries. It also affects the treatment of Africans who settle in Italy. Libya is an example of the long reach of Italian imperialism. Libya was for a brief period an incorporated province of Italy, on the model of French Algeria, and Libyan families still feel the devastating effects of the fascist dictatorship's persecution of those who resisted Italian occupation. Over 100,000 Libyan men, women, and children were deported to concentration camps deep in the desert in the late 1920s and early 1930s, and much of the ruling class was exiled or executed. Col. Moammar Gadhafi, who ruled from 1969 to 2011, was born during the Italian occupation of his country, and his identity as a revolutionary was shaped by the example of resistance leaders such as Omar al-Mukhtar, who was hanged by the fascists in front of 20,000 of his people in 1931. In 1970, soon after he took power, Gadhafi struck back, expelling the remaining Italian community in Libya. Some of those people had grown up entirely in Libya. They arrived in Italy for the first time, at some of the same ports receiving migrants today. This political intervention did not spell the end of Italian-Libyan commercial dealings, which grew out of colonial-era relations that had made Libya Italy's biggest oil supplier. Since 2004, Italy and Libya have been directly connected by the Greenstream natural gas pipeline, which runs below the Mediterranean, on the same axis as many migrant boats. Commercial concerns, and the cozy relationship of then-Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Gadhafi, also lay behind a historic 2008 Friendship Treaty between Italy and Libya, which promised infrastructure and other aid to Libya worth the equivalent of $ 5 billion as compensation for the damages inflicted by Italy during the decades of colonial rule. Until his death in 2011, despite deals with Italy and the European Union to control departures from his borders, Gadhafi intermittently used European fears of mass arrivals of migrants from Libya as a political weapon. Given Europe's geography, this weapon was pointed particularly at Italy, Libya's former master, and the principal target of Gadhafi's post-colonial revenge politics. Few Italians learn about this colonial history and its legacies, even though episodes of racist violence against immigrants from former Italian colonies and elsewhere are on the rise. Upon her appointment in 2013 as minister of integration, Cécile Kyenge, an Italian of Congolese origin, faced ugly racist attacks from fellow Italian politicians, including a comment that she looked like an orangutan. This climate has encouraged those who wish to rehabilitate the ``heroes'' of fascist imperialism. In 2012, the town of Affile built a publicly-funded memorial to General Rodolfo Graziani, known as ``the butcher of Fezzan'' for his brutal repression of Libyan resisters in the 1920s -- and for the massacre of Ethiopian civilians he ordered in response to a 1937 attempt on his life. This colonial history and its long-term consequences can help us understand Italians' ambivalent reactions to the emergency on their southernmost shores. Italian rescuers and activists work tirelessly and selflessly, and yet migrants who remain in Italy are often subject to racist attacks. It is ironic that the name chosen for the sea rescue operation organized by the Italian Navy in 2013 was the slogan of the fascist's dictatorship's bid to control the Mediterranean : Mare Nostrum. The program rescued more than 160,000 migrants in one year before it was discontinued due to European Union budget restrictions. It seems to reflect the conflicted attitude of the Italian government to its past aggressions : an admirable and courageous initiative -- advanced under an imperialist banner. The Italian government deserves the full support of the European Union as it responds to the current humanitarian crisis. But it also needs to address the failure of civic education about its colonial past. At 40 years old, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi is of a different generation than those who have sustained a politics of selective memory that is as dangerous in its own way for migrants as the boats now capsizing in the Mediterranean. Setting a new course on this issue is in Italy's interest, now more than ever.
( CNN ) The United States is failing its partners. If you want to understand one of the reasons that terrorism has been allowed to spread, it is that the majority of our partners do not have credible and capable special operations forces to respond to and defeat the current threat -- and we're not doing nearly enough to address the problem. The trouble is that little of our foreign military financing -- including the recent Counterterrorism Partnership Funds -- goes toward this vital facet in our efforts to counter extremism. As a result, violent extremists are making troubling gains. It's not because we don't recognize the problem -- nor that we don't talk the talk. The 2015 National Security Strategy speaks to the importance of American-led partnerships, while the 2014 Quadrennial Defense Review noted that we ``will rebalance our counterterrorism efforts toward greater emphasis on building partnership capacity.''. Despite this apparent recognition, the United States is not where it needs to be and instead finds itself constantly responding to crises instead of heading them off because of the failure to prioritize long-term investment in special operations units in key partner nations. As a result of this neglect, since the attacks of September 11, 2001, we have seen deadly terrorist attacks not just in the Middle East, but also in Indonesia, India and sub-Saharan Africa. Just look at the case of Kenya. On September 21, 2013, Al-Shabaab jihadists attacked the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, executing dozens of unarmed men, women, and children. Less than two years later, at Garissa University, Al-Shabaab jihadists attacked university dormitories, butchering almost 150 people. The perpetrators were separating the Christians from the Muslims and systemically executing the Christians before detonating their suicide vests. During both incidents, the Kenyan forces' response was horribly executed. Sadly, Kenya is not the exception -- and it is by no means the only country missing out on vital U.S. assistance. In 2015, U.S. taxpayers are providing $ 5.65 billion in foreign military finance, the majority of which is going to Israel and Egypt. Kenya, meanwhile, was slated to receive a mere $ 1.2 million. Nigeria, which is grappling with the rising threat of violent extremists in the shape of Boko Haram, has been afforded only $ 600,000. Simply put, the United States is spreading foreign military assistance too thin, while also failing to make necessary long-term commitments. It takes years to build special operations forces with credible capabilities. But although it is a worthwhile investment in terms of resources and energy, U.S. security assistance is not supporting enduring programs that build credible special operations partners. The reality is that we are not selling or giving our partners the capabilities that are critical to defeating the imminent threats they face today in hybrid warfare. We are also failing to develop long-term programs of record, bringing to bear all elements of national power as we did with Plan Colombia. This program, as well as the recent U.S. mission to support our Filipino partners against Abu Sayyaf, demonstrates the power of a persistent presence by U.S. Special Forces when coupled with long-term funding and true interagency cooperation. True, the Section 1206 Global Train and Equip program fulfills some needs, but money from the program only provides limited support -- it is an annual appropriation for ``new and emerging'' counterterrorist operations or to support military and stability operations in which the U.S. armed forces are a participant. Another program that builds special operations capacity, the Joint Combined Exchange and Training program, is also insufficient because it is ad hoc and meant to train U.S. forces first and foremost, not our partners. With all this in mind, it is clearly time for Congress to step in and develop a dedicated program that builds out special operations in key nations to help bring the fight to the violent extremists in their own backyards. By investing everywhere, we are investing nowhere, which is why we need to make choices about where the United States and its allies will see maximum benefit. The United States has a choice -- reinforce failure and keep doing what we are doing or change course while we still have time. But to get this right, Congress needs to start out by conducting hearings to find out in detail what current programs are providing to defeat imminent threats. This will mean asking the Departments of State and Defense to lay out a detailed budget with necessary metrics to show what capabilities these programs will provide to counter hybrid threats and when those capabilities will be complete. At the same time, Congress needs to move beyond annual appropriations so that State and Defense planners can do their job, too. Attacks such as Mumbai and Westgate are easy to plan, do not require large amounts of ordinance and can be done in almost any location in the world -- we can expect to see a lot more of these. But with competent and capable partners who are interoperable with other special operations forces and law enforcement, we can start to make progress. It goes without saying that special operations forces are not a panacea for defeating terrorism, the causes of which are complex and diverse. But having credible special operations forces is a great first step. And for many of our partner nations, the special operations capability we give them may be the best chance they have at protecting their populations from extremists at home.
Vidarbha, India ( CNN ) Yogita Kanhaiya is expecting a baby soon. She already has a two-year-old son. Her husband, Moreshwor, a cotton farmer, won't be around to see his children grown up. He committed suicide early in the pregnancy. Eight years back, Yogita's father-in-law, also a cotton farmer, took his own life. ``He was in so much debt,'' 25-year-old Yogita said of her late husband. ``He wasn't getting any money from cotton. He chose death over distress.''. It's a familiar story in families across Western India's cotton production belt, where, a cotton lobbyist group claims, one cotton farmer commits suicide every eight hours. ``We get reports of two to three farmer suicides every day,'' said Kishor Tiwari, leader of the farmers advocacy group, Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti ( VJAS ). Vidarbha, in the eastern region of the state of Maharashtra, is known as the epicenter of the suicide crisis. According to VJAS data, some 2,900 farmers from the area have taken their lives since 2013 ; more than 500 have died since the start of this year. There are a number of reasons for the hopelessness among Vidarbha farmers. Unseasonal rain and hail destroyed many crops earlier this year. But they've also had to contend with the flipside : a plentiful harvest in 2014 drove prices down while production costs rose, leaving many farmers either lacking income or burdened with debt from loans taken out to help keep them afloat. Last year was a record year for cotton production, resulting in a glut of cotton on the world market. India produced 40 million bales of the fiber in 2013/14 crop year, and is the second largest global cotton grower, after China. The record surplus of cotton in the global market pushed down prices hurting farmers, particularly in Vidarbha, which is becoming increasingly reliant on cotton. ``Our land mostly supports only two crops : cotton and soybean. But for the past few years, soybean yield has consistently been decreasing. So we mostly depend on cotton,'' said Murali Dhidkar, a local cotton farmer. He said in the past year, cotton prices had halved. ``I'm getting around 50 dollars per quintal. Just a year ago it was 100 dollars. I've never seen such a low price. The costs of pesticides, fertilizers and seeds are increasing but the cotton price is falling down.''. He points out the dismal condition of debt-ridden farmers like himself in Vidarbha, many of whom are forced to take out loans or give up farming. ``Government officials do not come to the village and listen to our plight. Just a few days ago, my neighbor burnt himself alive,'' Dhidkar said. Tiwari, from the farmers advocacy group, said many farmers in Vidarbha had lost hope that the situation would improve. ``It is an epidemic. How many more farmers need to commit suicide before the government steps in to find a solution to this problem ?''. More than 50 % of India's population is involved in the agricultural and allied sector, which contributes 18 % of the country's GDP. Government data shows 11,772 farmers committed suicide in 2013 across India. That is 44 deaths every day. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the amount of compensation paid for damaged crops, and lowered the threshold for farmers to claim payouts. However, that failed to appease farmers who are angry about the government's Land Acquisition Bill, which critics say makes it easier for the government to seize farmers' land. Modi's ruling BJP Party said the old rules were unnecessarily restrictive and the new bill is needed to spur investment and smooth the way for growth. The government is expected to reintroduce the new land bill when parliament reopens this week. On Sunday, thousands of farmers gathered in Delhi at a rally led by opposition Congress party to protest against the bill. Waving flags, they blasted Modi government's policies as ``pro-industrialist and anti-farmer.''. Tiwari, of the farmer's advocacy group, said the government needs to do more to stop the wave of suicides across the country. He said Modi's push to open bank accounts for every Indian household, neglected to address the major concern in farming households of falling incomes. ``Prime Minister Modi boasts about India rising, but he is not willing to talk about India dying,'' Tiwari said. He says, for a start, the government should guarantee a better market price for cotton and waive farmers' overdue debt. Divisional Commissioner of the Vidarbha region, Dnyaneshwar Rajurkar said the state government is aware of the situation and is planning to roll out relief programs to help local cotton farmers. The plans include halving bank loan interest rates and waiving loans from private money lenders. Rajurkar said the government is also planning to deploy doctors to counsel farmers in distress. Just days away from her baby's birth, Kanhaiya said she worries about how she's going to feed her family. ``I have to pay the loan back both to bank and private money lenders. I have no clue how I will pay the debt. Once the baby is born, I will look for work. I will have to do labor jobs all my life to pay the loan,'' she said, despair in her voice. ``I did receive compensation from the local state government after my husband's death. But it is very minimal. That does nothing to solve the grave problem I am in.''
( CNN ) A SkyWest Airlines flight made an emergency landing in Buffalo, New York, on Wednesday after a passenger lost consciousness, officials said. The passenger received medical attention before being released, according to Marissa Snow, spokeswoman for SkyWest. She said the airliner expects to accommodate the 75 passengers on another aircraft to their original destination -- Hartford, Connecticut -- later Wednesday afternoon. The Federal Aviation Administration initially reported a pressurization problem and said it would investigate. Snow said there was no indication of any pressurization issues, and the FAA later issued a statement that did not reference a pressurization problem. SkyWest also said there was no problem with the plane's door, which some media initially reported. Flight 5622 was originally scheduled to fly from Chicago to Hartford. The plane descended 28,000 feet in three minutes. ``It would feel like a roller coaster -- when you're coming over the top and you're going down,'' CNN aviation analyst Mary Schiavo said, describing how such a descent would feel. ``You know that these pilots knew they were in a very grave and very serious situation.''
( CNN ) Cigarettes have been put out across the bars of New Orleans. Cigars are welcome no more. The city known for excess of everything -- drinking, eating, dancing in the street until all hours -- went smoke-free as Tuesday became Wednesday at midnight. How can that be ?. It turns out that the city known for its over-the-top Mardi Gras celebrations and incredible jazz fests ( starting Friday ! ) didn't want its waiters and musicians to have to breathe smoke to do their jobs anymore. The New Orleans City Council passed its ban against smoking in most places across the city -- including bars, casinos and restaurants -- in January, and the vote was unanimous, the New Orleans Times-Picayune reports. Bar owners worried about potential revenue loss, while puffing customers bemoaned the loss of their smoking spots. Harrah's New Orleans and bar owners filed a lawsuit to stop the ban, and a hearing is scheduled in state court in a month, CNN affiliate WAPT reports. Fines start at $ 50. Luckily for us, none of CNN's 15 New Orleans must-do's -- including touring Treme or eating a beignet -- requires smoking.
( CNN ) The Indonesian government has ordered preparations for the execution of 10 inmates on death row, including Filipino maid Mary Jane Veloso and Australians Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran. Jakarta has advised consular officials to travel to Indonesia's ``execution island'' -- Nusa Kambangan -- where the ten are being held, though a spokesman for the Attorney General, Tony Spontana, told CNN Friday this is not the required 72-hour notice given to death row convicts before the actual execution. But he said, ``the time is approaching.''. The 10 inmates, from Australia, France, Ghana, the Philippines, Brazil, Nigeria and Indonesia, had their petitions for clemency denied by President Joko Widodo in late 2014. The executions, which will be carried out by firing squad, were planned for earlier this year but were postponed after several inmates filed separate legal challenges. On Tuesday, the Indonesian Supreme Court rejected reviews filed by French national Serge Atlaoui and Ghanaian Martin Anderson. ``We're just waiting for one more decision on the judicial review filed by Zainal Abidin and we hope the Supreme Court's decision will come out tomorrow ( Friday ),'' Spontana added. Abidin is also a drug convict and the only Indonesian citizen in the group. Chan and Sukumaran, members of the so-called ``Bali Nine'' convicted for their role in a failed 2005 heroin smuggling plot, tried to challenge the President's decision earlier this month but lost an appeal for the State Administrative Court to hear their case. Their lawyers have since filed another review at the Constitutional Court. The Attorney General's office has said they would respect all ongoing court proceedings but insisted the inmates have exhausted all their legal options. Australia has repeatedly appealed for clemency for the pair and has unsuccessfully proposed a prisoner swap with Indonesia as a way of avoiding their deaths. In another sign that the execution date may be announced soon, Spontana said Veloso, 30, was moved Friday to Nusa Kambangan, which lies off the coast of West Java. She has been held in a prison in Yogyakarta, Central Java since 2010. The Supreme Court rejected her petition for a judicial review in March but her lawyers were still preparing to file a second review on Monday. OPINION : Why executions won't win Indonesia's drug war. According to her lawyers, Veloso unknowingly carried drugs into Indonesia and that she was set up by members of a drug syndicate. Her entire family has traveled to Indonesia to fulfill her last wish. Older sister Marites Laurente told CNN Friday that Veloso wants to see parents, siblings and two young sons before facing the firing squad. Laurente said that while her sister seemed resigned to her fate, the family still hopes for a stay in her execution. ``The chances are slim but we're hoping for a miracle. That's what we need, a miracle,'' she said. ``If President Widodo kills her, he would kill an innocent person. So please stop them from executing her.''. At the time of the interview, lawyers had not informed the family about news of the attorney general's orders. Veloso's father, Cesar Veloso, 59, suffers from a heart ailment and seemed distraught about his daughter's situation. ``If I find out that my daughter will be executed the next day, I will kill myself first,'' he told CNN late Thursday. ``It's like throwing my child away. She is innocent. I can not accept it.''. No date has been set for the execution.
( CNN ) Five years ago, Rebecca Francis posed for a photo while lying next to a dead giraffe. This week, she got threatened for her action. The trouble started Monday, when comedian Ricky Gervais tweeted the photo with a question. ``What must've happened to you in your life to make you want to kill a beautiful animal & then lie next to it smiling ?'' Gervais wrote. In the past three days, his tweet has been retweeted almost 30,000 times. A number of people insulted and threatened Francis in response to the giraffe photo and others featuring her. On the website rebeccafrancis.com, there are photos of Francis with other animals, including a lion, which other Twitterers responded to. Francis, who has appeared on the NBC Sports Network outdoor lifestyle show ``Eye of the Hunter'' and was the subject of an interview with Hunting Life in late March, responded in a statement to HuntingLife.com on Tuesday, which was posted on its Facebook page. The death came about, she said, because she was asked by others on an African hunt to ``preserve'' him for the local people. '' ( The locals ) showed me this beautiful old bull giraffe that was wandering all alone. He had been kicked out of the herd by a younger and stronger bull. He was past his breeding years and very close to death,'' she said. ``They asked me if I would preserve this giraffe by providing all the locals with food and other means of survival.. I chose to honor his life by providing others with his uses and I do not regret it for one second. ( The locals ) did not waste a single part of him. I am grateful to be a part of something so good.''. According to the Giraffe Conservation Foundation, there are about 80,000 giraffes in Africa, a decline of 60,000 in the past 15 years. On a website called rebeccafrancis.com, where the photo is posted, Francis describes herself as a longtime outdoors enthusiast and a fan of bow-hunting. ``I prefer bowhunting, and the animals I have taken with a bow include : a 10 1/2 ft. brown bear, black bear, shiras moose, alaskan moose, dall sheep, stone sheep, desert bighorn ram, rocky mountain bighorn ram, mule deer, whitetail deer, elk, mountain goat, antelope, arapawa ram, kudu, zebra, black wildebeest, giraffe, springbuck, blesbuck, lynx, badger, and squirrel,'' she writes. ``I have also taken many of the same species and more with a rifle.''. She has achieved the ``Full Curl of North American sheep'' with a bow, according to the Hunting Life interview, and hopes to achieve the ``Super 10.'' The latter, according to liveoutdoors.com, ``entails the taking of one animal from the ten basic North American species : bears, cats, deer, elk, caribou, moose, bison/muskox, goat, antelope and sheep.''. Tom Opre, the producer and co-host of ``Eye of the Hunter,'' says she won the first season of ``Extreme Huntress,'' an online offshoot of ``Eye,'' and co-hosted a handful of ``Eye'' episodes. The rebeccafrancis.com website was apparently last updated in 2013, though it makes mention of a 2015 TV series called ``Sheep Shape'' on the Sportsman Channel. CNN has reached out to Francis for comment.
Atlanta ( CNN ) Federal marshals have arrested Scott Kelley, a fugitive accused of kidnapping who was featured on CNN's ``The Hunt.''. Kelley, 50, was taken into custody at the Atlanta airport Wednesday after arriving on a flight from Costa Rica, Deputy U.S. Marshal Jamie Berry said. ``It was time to come home,'' Kelley told People magazine about his decision to return to the United States. Kelley has been wanted since 2004, accused of noncustodial kidnapping and unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. His wife, Genevieve Kelley, who's charged with the same crimes, turned herself in to authorities last year, just a few months after the case was featured on CNN's ``The Hunt.'' Her trial is scheduled to start next month. The couple is accused of leaving New Hampshire, kidnapping Genevieve Kelley's daughter, Mary Nunes, and beginning a life on the lam when she was 8 years old. At the time, the child's father, Mark Nunes, had full custody rights. The search for the three spanned the United States, Canada and Central and South America. It ended on Monday, when Scott Kelley and Mary Nunes entered the U.S. Consulate in Costa Rica and requested passports so they could return to the United States. The consulate notified U.S. Marshals, Berry said, and when Kelley and Nunes flew to Atlanta on Wednesday investigators were waiting for them. Mary Nunes, now 19, was interviewed by investigators at the Atlanta airport to ensure her health and safety and then allowed to continue to her final destination, Berry said. Previously, authorities had said her whereabouts were unknown. CNN New Hampshire affiliate WMUR reported that the daughter plans to testify at her mother's trial. In a statement released through a private investigator he's hired in the case, her father said that he was thrilled to learn Mary is safe. ``We love Mary and are overjoyed that she is alive and back in the US. Our hearts and home are open to her, and we will do everything we can to insure she remains safe and healthy,'' Mark Nunes said in a statement. ``We remain concerned about her emotional and physical well-being. We look forward to the day our family is finally reunited.''. Kelley's attorney did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Before allegedly fleeing the country, Genevieve Kelley had accused her ex-husband of abusing their child. Investigators found no basis for the accusations and no charges were filed. On a Facebook page defending her, supporters of the mother say she did what any parent would do under the same circumstances. Photos on the page show her standing with friends holding signs that say, ``Justice for Gen ! Children need protection.''. Wayne Rioux, who was then the police chief of Whitefield, New Hampshire, told ``The Hunt'' that a video Genevieve and Scott Kelley made, intended to prove their abuse allegations, aroused his suspicions. Rioux watched the tape for ``any evidence of wrongdoing by Mark Nunes.''. ``But throughout the tape all I saw was this bizarre, strange conduct by the mother,'' Rioux said, ``who was absolutely brainwashing the daughter and trying to get the daughter to say things against her daddy.''. Attorney Alan Rosenfeld has argued that Genevieve Kelley had no other option than running away with her daughter, after a court-appointed guardian and social service agencies had said they didn't believe the abuse allegations. ``Simply put, there was no lawful alternative to provide safety for this child,'' he said earlier this year, according to WMUR. Earlier this year, Brazilian police tracked down Victor Arden Barnard, another fugitive who'd been featured on ``The Hunt.''. The 53-year-old American pastor is accused of dozens of sexual assaults in Minnesota. Last year, the same day Genevieve Kelley was arrested, authorities in Texas announced that in an unrelated case, remains found were confirmed to be those of another fugitive featured on the program, Kevin Patrick Stoeser. Stoeser, a U.S. soldier who was dishonorably discharged, pleaded guilty in 2003 to child sexual assault and child pornography charges and was sentenced to 13 years behind bars. Remains of Shane Miller, another suspect featured on the ``The Hunt,'' were found last year. And Charles Mozdir, another suspect who was profiled on the show, was killed in a gunbattle with authorities. CNN's Tricia Escobedo and Slma Shelbayah contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A North Pacific gray whale has earned a spot in the record books after completing the longest migration of a mammal ever recorded. The whale, named Varvara, swam nearly 14,000 miles ( 22,500 kilometers ), according to a release from Oregon State University, whose scientists helped conduct the whale-tracking study. Varvara, which is Russian for ``Barbara,'' left her primary feeding ground off Russia's Sakhalin Island to cross the Pacific Ocean and down the West Coast of the United States to Baja, Mexico. Varvara's journey surpassed a record listed on the Guinness Worlds Records website. It said the previous record was set by a humpback whale that swam a mere 10,190-mile round trip between the ``warm breeding waters near the equator and the colder food-rich waters of the Arctic and Antarctic regions.''. Records are nice, but Bruce Mate, the lead author of the study, thinks the long trip might say more about the whale than just its ability to swim. During her 14,000-mile journey, Varvara visited ``three major breeding areas for eastern gray whales,'' which was a surprise to Mate, who is also the director of the Marine Mammal Institute at Oregon State University. ``For her to go to Mexico,'' Mate said, ``It's pretty strong evidence that it's where she's from.''. Varvara was thought to be an endangered western whale, but her ability to ``navigate across open water over tremendously long distances is impressive,'' he said in the release, which could mean that some western gray whales are actually eastern grays. With only 150 western gray whales believed to be in existence, that number might be even lower. ``Past studies have indicated genetic differentiation between the species, but this suggests we may need to take a closer look,'' Mate said. Fourth baby orca born this season.
( CNN ) Prison life won't be pretty for Aaron Hernandez, the former NFL player and convicted murderer sentenced to life without parole. After correction officers evaluate him, he will be shipped to Massachusetts' flagship maximum-security prison, one of the most high-tech jails in the United States with no history of breakouts : the Souza-Baranowski Correctional Center in Shirley, about 40 miles outside downtown Boston. It's called Souza, for short, and it's the state's newest prison, opened in 1998, with a matrix of 366 cameras recording live 24 hours a day and a microwave detection perimeter with taut wire. ``I don't know the date, but he'll be going there. That's the maximum-security facility,'' Department of Corrections spokesman Darren Duarte said. Legal advocates for inmates describe Souza as sterile and violent at once. Its diverse demographic includes the young and the old, many of whom are also doing life. One stubborn problem is that opiates are smuggled to inmates, the legal advocates said. ``It's very shiny and clean looking and very sterile,'' said Leslie Walker, executive director of Prisoners' Legal Services of Massachusetts, who has been visiting the Souza prison about every six weeks for the past 15 years and serves indigent prisoners there. But, she added : ``It is a very dangerous prison that is right now experiencing a veritable flood of opiates.''. Officials said Hernandez, 25, is being processed at the maximum-security Massachusetts Correctional Institution-Cedar Junction in Walpole, just a handful of miles from Gillette Stadium, where he once played tight end for the New England Patriots under a five-year $ 40 million contract. The prison system has yet to determine where to initially place Hernandez in Souza : solitary confinement ; the less harsh but restricted block ; the general population ; a privileged section known as the ``lifers block,'' for those serving a life sentence ; or the ``kitchen block,'' for those who work in the prison kitchen. ``At this point in time, we will figure out where he belongs in the population once the processing of Hernandez is complete,'' Duarte said. ``Right now, he'll be treated like a regular inmate when he walked into the door, but they will figure all that out.''. Hernandez was sent immediately for processing after Wednesday's sentencing and jury conviction, Duarte said. A news outlet helicopter followed Hernandez's transfer to MCI Cedar Junction. Prison officials will be concerned about Hernandez's safety and whether any enemies, gangs or headline-seeking inmates will try to hurt Hernandez, who will become Souza's most famous resident. ``There could be prisoners with a beef who are out to get him,'' Walker said. ``Then he's going to have to be separated, and it's going to be challenging for prison officers and perhaps for him. ``The good news is that the superintendent of Souza-Baranowski is very smart and thorough and a decent human being, who I'm sure will do everything he can to keep Mr. Hernandez safe,'' Walker added. ``The person at the top sets the tone. He's fairly new and he's doing everything he can to make sure the prison is as safe as possible.''. That superintendent, Osvaldo Vidal, couldn't be immediately reached for comment Wednesday. Because of his celebrity, Hernandez may find himself signing autographs for other inmates and even guards, said Larry Levine, a former federal inmate who spent 10 years in high - and minimum-security prisons. ``There will be a lot of staff that will treat him like an animal that he is, but there will be other staff that will want his autograph and treat him like a star,'' said Levine, who founded Wall Street Prison Consultants, which advises offenders and convicts heading to prison. In the long run, however, it may not matter much in what section of the prison Hernandez does his time. About 90 % of the inmates in the maximum-security prison are locked in their cells for 19 hours a day, said Walker, the legal advocate. ``It's pretty grim,'' Walker said. Souza has slightly larger cells than most other Massachusetts prisons, but not by much, Walker said. Even so, the cells are stark, small rooms of painted cinder-block walls with metal fixtures : a bunk mounted to the wall, a toilet and sink combination, a small writing shelf attached to the wall, and a nearby small stool affixed to the floor, Walker said. There's also a shelf for a small television, which must have a clear back for easy inspection, Walker said. With the exception of the TV, which inmates can buy for under $ 200, all furnishings are metal and bolted down to keep inmates from throwing them, she said. There are two windows : one roughly 4 by 20 inches with clear glass that looks outdoors to a wall, building or trees, and a tiny window on the cell door, which has two slots, for handcuffing in the middle and ankle cuffing at the foot of the door, she said. ``There's very little to do,'' Walker said of inmate life. ``It was built as a punishment facility. The thing in corrections is that you don't want people to like it there. Some people have been there since it opened, and those people are excruciatingly bored or scared or both.''. To combat opiate use among inmates, prison guards use narcotics-sniffing dogs for inspections, Walker said. ``It's pretty pathetic. I have clients ( in Souza prison ) who are heroin addicts who are trying to get clean,'' Walker said. There also are gangs in the prison, she said. As for violence, one elderly inmate was beaten to death last year, Walker said. If Hernandez finds himself in solitary confinement, it won't be pleasant, Walker said. ``Solitary confinement is a kind of torture that no one does well in. The lack of meaningful sensory stimulus and contact drives people mad,'' Walker said. Initially, ``prison officials may feel they have to put him there for his safety, but I hope not,'' Walker said. ``It's very hard time.''. Opinion : The shame of Aaron Hernandez.
Boston ( CNN ) Adrianne Haslet-Davis and her husband, Adam Davis, were standing near the finish line on the day of the Boston Marathon bombing. Her feet were sore from wearing 4.5-inch heels. Still, they walked to Boylston Street to watch the runners. ``We were so in love and happy together,'' she told a federal jury Wednesday. It was the second day the Boston jury heard a procession of heartbreaking loss -- the survivors and families of those killed when twin bombs planted by the pair of brothers named Tsarnaev exploded near the finish line. The jury must decide whether bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done. Haslet-Davis and Davis, who had just returned from a tour in Afghanistan with the Air Force, were steps away from the explosion near the Forum restaurant. She recalled the force of the blast that killed three people and injured over 200 that April day in 2013. She knew right away it was a terrorist attack. Screams and heavy smoke filled the air. She couldn't hear her own screams. She thought she was dead. When her husband, who also was injured, lifted her leg, he too let out a scream. She said she thought he was in shock. She rolled over onto her stomach and crawled over broken glass, shredding her arms. She dragged herself to the Forum. ``I saw all five of my toes, but I saw a lot of blood,'' she said. ``I didn't see my ankle.''. A ballroom dancer, Haslet-Davis' left leg would later be amputated below the knee. Inside the Forum, Haslet-Davis begged for whiskey. ``I just wanted the pain to go away. I only begged for the whiskey when I thought I was going to die.''. When someone removed Adam's shoe, an artery was spurting blood. His face got whiter and whiter, she said. His eye rolled back. She thought he was dead. At a hospital, she called her parents on her cellphone. She told them she was in a terrorist attack. ``I don't think I have a left foot anymore,'' she told her father. ``I'm in really bad shape and I really need to talk to you because this might be it.''. Her father told her he was driving and it was illegal to pull over. ``I don't care if it's illegal. I need to talk to you because these might be our last words. I said I was in a terrorist attack at the Boston Marathon and Adam is dead and this might be it for me.''. Haslet-Davis told the jury that, at the Forum, her husband kept telling her he was sorry. ``That was all he could say. That he loved me. He was so sorry.''. Her husband, she said, has since ``bravely admitted himself into a mental facility at the VA hospital.''. After her testimony, Haslet-Davis walked slowly off the stand. She appeared to glare at Tsarnaev, who did not look at her. Earlier this week, prosecutors showed jurors an image of Tsarnaev taken when he was in a holding cell. It was dated July 10, 2013 -- the day of his arraignment on charges he deliberately set off the deadly bombs. He glares into the camera defiantly, his middle finger raised in a gesture that Assistant U.S. Attorney Nadine Pellegrini said showed a young man who was ``unconcerned, unrepentant and unchanged.''. On Wednesday, Tsarnaev's lawyer, Miriam Conrad, sought to discredit the use of the image. She suggested the gesture had been presented to the jury out of context. On cross-examination of a deputy U.S. marshal, Conrad showed the jury security footage from which the image was taken. In it, Tsarnaev is seen looking into the camera touching his hair. Moments before, he has two fingers up, forming what Conrad called a ``V sign,'' before raising his middle finger. Gary Olivera, a deputy U.S. Marshal for 14 years, admitted that the camera was encased in a reflective surface and Tsarnaev could have been using it as a mirror. ``A lot of times people do that to get our attention,'' Olivera said. Also Wednesday, Jinyan Zhao told the jury about her niece, Lingzi Lu, a ``beautiful nerd'' and graduate student at Boston University who was killed in the bombing. Lingzi Lu was originally from China but was buried in Boston. ``How she died, and why she died, it just felt like she is part of Boston, part of city,'' her aunt said. ``The thinking is she should just be here.''. The family, Zhao said, put a music box and some books in her casket. Her mother put a bracelet on her wrist and touched her hand. Later, her mother described her beautiful hand. Zhao recalled what Lu's mother said to her :'' `No matter what I don't want to believe it is her hand.'''. The brother and stepfather of Sean Collier also took the stand Wednesday. Collier was the MIT police officer who was shot in his patrol car, another victim of the Tsarnaev brothers as they tried to evade capture. Sean Collier always wanted to be a cop, said his brother. He was a child who viewed life in terms of right and wrong. Either you did it or you didn't. ``We thought it was typical little boy stuff, but he never grew out of it,'' Andrew Collier told the jury. ``Sean was always the one to spill the beans,'' said Joe Rodgers, 59, who married Collier's mother, Kelly, in 1993. ``He was a cop from an early age.''. On a Thursday night in April 2013, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Police Officer Sean Collier lay bleeding in his patrol car after being ambushed and shot in the head. His car door was open, and his foot was lodged between the gas and brake pedals. The officer who found Collier testified at trial that he had wounds to the temple, neck and head. He was bleeding out as officers tried to revive him. Collier would become the fourth victim of the Tsarnaev brothers. The night still feels like a dream for Rodgers. ``He had a hole in the middle of his head,'' Rodgers said. ``He was shot to pieces. He was just laying there. My wife was touching him, and his blood was coming up in her hands.''. Prosecution shows what it calls Tsarnaev's defiant message to U.S. Prosecutors said the brothers killed Collier because they wanted his gun. But their efforts to take it were thwarted by a safety holster. Tamerlan, 26, was killed in a chase and gunbattle with police that began with reports of an ``officer down'' at MIT. Less than two weeks after Tsarneav was found guilty on every count, the jury deciding his punishment is hearing about the lasting impact of his deeds. Earlier, MIT Police Chief John DiFava told the jury that he hired Collier, who fit in ``perfectly'' because of his policing style and engaging personality. The MIT police, who are designated as special officers by the Massachusetts State Police, patrol the sprawling campus in Cambridge. ``The atmosphere of the department changed since April 18, 2013,'' he said. ``There is sadness and a sense of loss. I think that it will be there for as long as that generation of officers remains. It was remarkable the amount of support we got from the community, but Sean's death hangs like a weight.''. DiFava has come to question whether he wants to continue on the force. ``Policing is the only thing I've done in my life, and I've always tried to be good at what I do,'' he said. ``I lost one of my own. I have children at home and I've always thought I would have been very, very proud for them to wear the uniform. Now I'm not so sure.''. Rodgers said it took his wife, Kelly, months to gain the strength to climb out of bed after losing her son. Saturday was the second anniversary of the bombing. She cried all weekend. ``She was very strong,'' he said. ``She was a happy person. She was a good mother. Since Sean's death, she's very scared of anything that might happen to any of the other children.''. Kelly became pregnant with Sean after losing a baby that lived for a day or two, Rodgers said. His birth lifted her out of depression. ``He was special,'' he said, adding that Sean is now buried alongside the baby. Rodgers said he still feels beat down two years later. ``There's something missing,'' he said. ``Thanksgiving and Christmas will never be the same.''. Collier's brother Andrew said, ``Even when we're having fun, there's always a cloud over us. I miss Sean. I miss everything about him.''. The prosecution is expected to rest Friday, according to an official with insight into the prosecutor's plans. Poll : 53 % say Tsarnaev should face death penalty. Ann O'Neill and Aaron Cooper reported from Boston, Ray Sanchez wrote in New York.
Beijing ( CNN ) Chinese police on Monday released five female activists who were detained last month, family and friends of the women tell CNN. Wei Tingting, Wang Man, Zheng Churan, Li Tingting and Wu Rongrong were freed. The women will be under police surveillance for a year and have their movements and activities restricted, attorney Liang Xiaojun said. Police can summon the women for questioning at any time, he added. The five members of China's Women's Rights Action Group were detained in Beijing, Guangzhou and Hangzhou a few days before events planned for International Women's Day on March 8. The United States had urged China to free them, and the international community harshly criticized keeping the women in custody. ``Each and every one of us has the right to speak out against sexual harassment and the many other injustices that millions of women and girls suffer around the world,'' U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement Friday. ``We strongly support the efforts of these activists to make progress on these challenging issues, and we believe that Chinese authorities should also support them, not silence them.''. ``Free the five'' became a Twitter hashtag. Wang Qiushi, a lawyer for Wei, said police recommended last week that prosecutors press charges of ``assembling a crowd to disturb public order.''
( CNN ) If there was ever any doubt that the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan is an energy policy plan, not a carbon reduction plan, all you have to do is look at how they treat nuclear energy. Nuclear is our largest source of carbon-free energy, generating over 60 % of our carbon-free electricity. Surely President Barack Obama's climate plan, allegedly aimed at reducing the United States' overall carbon emissions, would revitalize the nuclear industry, lead to increased plant construction and help meet aggressive carbon reduction targets. Well, think again. James Hansen, the former head of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said in 2013 that ``continued opposition to nuclear power threatens humanity's ability to avoid dangerous climate change.''. Yet Wednesday, the White House will celebrate Earth Day and promote its work to fend off climate change, while strategically ignoring its largest tool to cut carbon emissions -- nuclear energy -- as well as the warning of one of the administration's favorite climate scientists. Despite the fact that nuclear power is carbon-free, the Obama administration's energy policy plan is biased against it. This bias is created by how Environmental Protection Agency credits nuclear power in its models of both current emissions and plan implementation. EPA's modeling is divorced from reality. First, EPA's ``Base Case for the Proposed Clean Power Plan'' purports to depict the current state of the industry as the future would unfold without the Clean Power Plan. This base case assumes no new nuclear construction and indicates the retirement of 96 of our 99 operating nuclear plants by 2050. EPA's implementation modeling, ``Option 1 -- State,'' shows exactly the same situation : no new construction and 96 retirements by 2050. In other words, EPA assumes that the nuclear industry is essentially phased out by 2050. These assumptions are tremendously important because they determine how emission targets are set and what state actions will receive credit toward those targets. A group of University of Tennessee graduate students made this point to EPA at a public hearing last summer. Using EPA's own data, the graduate students showed that EPA's energy policy plan creates incentives for states to shut down nuclear power plants and replace them with natural gas combined cycle plants. The students demonstrated that under this scenario, EPA's model shows emission reductions while real world emissions actually increase. President Obama's EPA has shifted its position on nuclear energy and hidden that policy shift in a model. For example, when EPA modeled the Lieberman-Warner bill in 2008, the agency indicated 44 nuclear plants would need to be built by 2030 in order to achieve the carbon reductions mandated in the bill. EPA's modeling of the 2009 Waxman-Markey bill showed the need to build 275 new nuclear plants by 2050 to meet the carbon reduction targets in the legislation. Where did this policy shift come from ?. At a recent hearing in the Environment and Public Works Committee, Mary Nichols, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, told Congress that EPA looked at California's California Global Warming Solutions Act when developing its so-called Clean Power Plan and that EPA's plan adopts the same policy choices -- limited credit for either nuclear or hydropower -- both of which are carbon-free. Thus, EPA is assuming legislative powers and is making policy choices that favor some forms of carbon-free energy over others. Congress did not give EPA the authority to make these choices, so instead they have hidden them in the modeling. For example, the same modeling that assumes the nuclear energy phaseout coincidentally shows robust development of renewables without any retirements between now and 2050. This is a very favorable assumption albeit unlikely considering wind turbines and solar panels are commonly believed to last only 20 to 30 years before needing replacement. This anti-nuclear bias also is evident in Obama's recent executive order ``Planning for Federal Sustainability in the Next Decade,'' which directs agencies to reduce their carbon emissions. Even though existing nuclear plants generate carbon-free electricity, the executive order does not allow agencies to take credit for emission reduction from nuclear energy unless it is energy from small modular reactors. While I have long fought back on attempts for the federal government to tax carbon, I believe in an all-of-the-above energy strategy that provides our nation with energy security, and I have supported legislation that helps to clean the air. The administration says it shares these same interests, despite differing avenues to get there. The administration also believes in man-driven global warming, which should make nuclear energy its golden key. But the Clean Power Plan and the President's recent executive order demonstrate that the Obama administration is neither serious about reducing carbon emissions nor pursuing an all-of-the-above energy strategy. If you think this administration supports nuclear energy, think again.
( CNN ) Soon, America will be too fat to fight. Forget about rampant diabetes, heart attacks and joint problems -- the scariest consequence arising out of our losing battle with the bulge is the safety of our country. In about five years, so many young Americans will be grossly overweight that the military will be unable to recruit enough qualified soldiers. That alarming forecast comes from Maj, Gen. Allen Batschelet, who is in charge of U.S. Army Recruiting Command. Obesity, he told me, ``is becoming a national security issue.''. I was so taken aback by Batschelet's statement that I felt the need to press him. Come on ! Obesity ? A national security crisis ? The General didn't blink. ``In my view, yes.''. Of the 195,000 young men and women who signed up to fight for our country, only 72,000 qualified. Some didn't make the cut because they had a criminal background, or a lack of education, or too many tattoos. But a full 10 % didn't qualify because they were overweight. Before you accuse me of sensationalizing, it's that 10 % figure that worries General Batschelet the most. ``The obesity issue is the most troubling because the trend is going in the wrong direction,'' he said. ``We think by 2020 it could be as high as 50 %, which mean only 2 in 10 would qualify to join the Army.'' He paused. ``It's a sad testament to who we are as a society right now.''. The problem is so worrisome for the Army that recruiters have become fitness coaches, like the trainers on the NBC show, ``The Biggest Loser.''. Yes, your tax dollars pay for Army recruiters to play Dolvett Quince or Jillian Michaels to whip could-be recruits into shape with the hope they can diet and exercise their way to become real recruits. If they lose enough weight, they're sent to boot camp. Some make it ; many don't. But, General Batschelet told me the Army must try. ``We are the premier leader on personal development in the world,'' he told me. ``We want to see you grow and become a leader. That is a great strength in our Army.''. Except the Army never considered the type of growth it's now contending with. Nowadays ``personal development'' means working on both character and.. girth. The general, along with so many others in this country, is struggling with why so many Americans, despite all the warnings, continue to eat too much and exercise too little. I have a theory. It ain't pretty. But it's got to be true : We just don't care. ``The acceptance of obesity is prevalent,'' according to Claire Putnam, an obstetrician and gynecologist who believes obesity is a national crisis right now. ``When you look around you, 70 % of adults are overweight or obese. It's seems normal,'' she said. Just look at the numbers : More than one-third of U.S. adults are obese. Seventeen percent of all children and adolescents in the U.S. are obese. That's triple the rate from just a generation ago. So, maybe we should face the fact that we've grown comfortable with our girth. It is crystal clear we haven't the foggiest idea of who needs to lose weight and who doesn't. Just the other day, Twitter trolls scolded the singer, Pink, for gaining weight. Pink is not remotely fat. Neither is Selena Gomez, haters. Or Britney Spears, hecklers. If 70 % of us are overweight in this country, why are there so many willing to fat-shame people who are not remotely obese ? Maybe it's easier to criticize others for carrying extra weight than to admit we have a weight problem ourselves. Because it is abundantly clear we are wallowing in denial. Dr. Putnam points to one of Kaiser Permanante's medical questionnaires. You know, the paperwork patients are asked to fill out before they see the doctor. There is actually a box on the form that allows the patient to ``opt out of talking about obesity.'' Some patients refuse to step on the scale. ``You want to be sensitive to that patient,'' Putnam told me. ``You don't want to nag. But, doctors need to step in and say we need to fix this.''. CNN's chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, agrees with Putnam. ``Perceptions of weight are a big part of the problem,'' he said to me. ``If a person is overweight -- as difficult as it is -- they ought to be told. You know, this issue reminds me of the issue with concussions. We should call them what they really are : a brain injury, not `getting your bell rung.' In the same vein, we should tell people who are overweight or obese that, clinically, they're `overweight' or `obese' and at risk for just about every chronic disease in the book.''. In other words, chubby is not the proper way to describe a person who is obese. Just like ``fat'' is not the proper term for Pink or Selena Gomez. And, yes, semantics matter. According to the CDC, 81 % of overweight boys and 71 % of overweight girls believe they are just the right weight. We've clearly lost our perspective on what's normal when it comes to a healthy weight. So much so it's becoming a national security problem. So what will it take ? The answer can not be the U.S Army.
( CNN ) For many Girl Scout troops it is officially cookie season. I feel guilty saying no to the sweet, enthusiastic girls standing outside my grocery store who use their smiles and newly practiced sales pitches to ask how many boxes I'd like to order. After all, the organization is dedicated to enhancing girls' character and confidence. And I have to admit that the Samoas ( now called ``Caramel deLites'' ) are delicious. But as a physician who is passionate about health promotion, I politely tell the girls, ``No, thanks.'' I am concerned that every bite and every sale not only delivers an unhealthy snack, but also a dangerous nutrition message. And I'm surprised that more doctors aren't speaking up about this. Thin Mints, the most popular cookie, contains refined white flour, sugar, partially hydrogenated oil, and high fructose corn syrup. The first ingredient in those caramel deLites is sugar, but they also contain corn syrup and high fructose corn syrup, for a total of 6 grams of sugar per cookie. That's a lot of sugar, and while some experts debate whether high fructose corn syrup is any worse than sugar, we agree that both, in the vast quantities we Americans consume, contribute to obesity. But I'm not only concerned about obesity. There are two other more insidious and dangerous risks to consider : cancer and heart disease. How could a cookie cause cancer ? Let me explain. Both high fructose corn syrup and sugar in the United States are largely made from genetically modified crops : 95 % of the sugar beets grown in the United States are GMO, as is 88 % percent of the corn. Those crops are engineered to withstand spraying of the Monsanto herbicide Roundup Ready. Last month the International Agency for Research on Cancer declared the key ingredient, Glyphosate, a probable carcinogen. Canola oil, another cookie ingredient, is also of concern : 90 % of rape seed ( from which canola is produced ) is GMO, too. Suddenly those cookies seem less benign, don't they ?. If that isn't enough to dampen your cravings, recent studies have found a causal link between sugar and heart disease. And trans fats have been well documented to increase the risk of heart disease. A few years ago, this was a big story, and most products now boast that they have zero trans fats. In reality, companies are allowed to claim ``zero'' on the label if a serving contains less than 0.5 grams of trans fats. But often we eat more than one serving -- do you really stop at two cookies ? -- so rather than zero, your actual intake can be several grams. Adding to the confusion, on the ingredient label, transfats show up as partially hydrogenated oils, including in Thin Mints, Caramel deLites, Peanut Butter Patties, and other popular Girl Scout Cookies. Clearly the Girl Scouts' leadership knows of the dangers ; they actively advertise on the boxes and web site those cookies contain ``zero grams trans fat per serving.''. ``You might be thinking, `Wow ! I'm glad Dr. Maizes wasn't my mom !'' But my kids will tell you I love a good dessert. In fact, I make a mean cheesecake. An occasional home-baked cookie is not going to ruin a kid's health. The problem is bigger than cookies. There is too little conversation on the hazards of sugar, white flour, GMOs, and trans fats from those whom you would expect to call them out : physicians. Perhaps this is not so surprising. After all, pediatricians, whose job is to protect the health of children, have a sum total of zero hours of required nutrition education in their residencies. Nor do residency review committees require internists, family physicians or cardiologists to learn nutrition. And yet, there is compelling evidence that a diet rich in vegetables and fruit, whole grains, fish, nuts, and moderate amounts of dairy and alcohol, as well as avoiding smoking, obesity -- and exercising 30 minutes a day -- lowers overall mortality by 65 %. Similar results were found in the study published under the name ``Healthy Living is the Best Revenge'', which showed that eating a healthy diet ( fruits, vegetables, beans, whole grains, nuts, seeds, and low meat consumption ) would prevent 78 % of chronic disease, 93 % of diabetes, 81 % of heart attacks, 50 % of strokes and 36 % of all cancers. At the University of Arizona Center for Integrative Medicine, where I serve as executive director, we are seeking to remedy this. We include nutrition in all our training programs and have a new, 100-hour online course that is being pilot-tested at five pediatric residencies including Stanford, Universities of Arizona, Chicago, and Kansas, and Eastern Virginia Medical School. We also run an annual nutrition and health conference to address nutrition education for physicians in practice. Educating doctors will not be enough. Parents and schools have a role to play as well. And the Girl Scouts, with their enormous reach and influence, could do their part and choose a new fundraising item. Times change and our traditions evolve. What if, this spring, the girls sold fresh fruit and vegetables, tomato plants or flowers, or even pedometers ? What if in addition to their characters and confidence we directly addressed the health of their bodies ?. Read more : What Girl Scout cookies taught me about life.
( CNN ) ESPN's Britt McHenry this week found herself in the news, rather than reporting on it, after a video surfaced showing her berating and belittling an employee of a tow company in Arlington, Virginia. Among the highlights, as caught on tape and eventually uploaded to LiveLeak : ``I'm on television and you're in a f**king trailer, honey,'' and ``I wouldn't work at a scumbag place like this. Makes my skin crawl even being here.'' And, finally, ``Lose some weight, baby girl.''. It's pretty cringe-worthy stuff that seems difficult, if not impossible, to defend. McHenry quickly issued an apology, blaming the incident on a moment of intense frustration but admitting her mistake and accepting responsibility. It was, however, too late : the #firebrittmchenry hashtag was already trending on Twitter, where she was called everything from classist, class-less, and ``ugly on the inside'' to a ``sad, self-hating coward.'' ESPN, meanwhile, announced that McHenry would be suspended for a week. Certainly McHenry should have known better than to have used such words, even if that's what she was thinking, least of all because in our YouTube age, such missteps always come to light. But while McHenry's reaction could very well have been a result of an overblown sense of entitlement, evidence of a mean girl who never left high school, what's also troubling is how quickly and gleefully the rest of us issued blame on McHenry without fully knowing -- or, it seems, caring about -- the other side of the story. The video that was released -- by the tow company -- was heavily edited and included only McHenry's responses, not the comments of the employee who may have provoked her and contributed to an argument that clearly escalates as the video goes on. McHenry knew she was being taped ; at one point, she looks directly at the camera. The employee even threatens to make the video public. Did McHenry keep going because she has that much of a self-destructive streak ? Or because she truly could not help herself ? Or was she confident that any video evidence would show that there were two people playing this particular game ?. How Britt McHenry could have responded. These days, there's nothing we love more than an example of a celebrity fall from grace, whether it's Lindsay Lohan or Brian Williams or Britt McHenry, who was judged not on the facts but on what we take particular joy in believing : that the over-privileged and semi-famous do not necessarily deserve a fair trial. The high price of public shaming online. Sure, McHenry probably feels entitled, but that's our doing, too. We're a society obsessed with putting celebrities on a pedestal -- celebrating them, compensating them. And yet when, in a moment of frustration and stress, McHenry lets the entitlement bestowed on her win out over taking a deep breath and walking away, we're right there to demand to know what gives her the nerve. You know what gives her the nerve ? We do. ( Be honest : When is the last time you had a warm and fuzzy experience at the tow lot ? ). But we're really no better than she is. The problem with social media, and our dependence on it, is that it allows people to present and receive whatever angle they want, biased or not, fair or not. It's the ``power of the press'' without the objectivity or accountability demanded of the actual press. And it has enabled a dangerous vigilantism that makes those who use that power no different from the ones they are supposedly rallying against. Think about it. Who was worse : McHenry or the people who made that video public, and who did so without owning up to their part in the conversation ? Who is worse : Britt McHenry for childishly mocking a confrontational tow employee's bad teeth, or the Twitter masses who call for justice and ``the return of class'' -- who express views like, ``Part of me feels bad for Britt McHenry. Poor thing actually believes she was hired for `brains' and `education' ?. Shouldn't they question whether, in fact, McHenry could have actually been standing up for herself ?. Sorry to break it to you, but these days, we're all bullies. At least Britt McHenry owns up to it.
( CNN ) It won't come as news to anyone in America today that the authority to make an arrest carries with it the potential to escalate to lethal force. But the seemingly innocuous genesis of police authority ( initial stop and question, pulling someone over for a traffic violation ) becomes significant because of the potential result ( deadly force ). A minor traffic stop can be the springboard to a check for outstanding warrants. An initial stop can therefore lead to an arrest. And an arrest, we know, can have fatal results. In South Carolina earlier this month, Walter Scott was the subject of a bench warrant for over $ 18,000 in unpaid child support, according to court records. That means that once he was stopped, he probably knew before the police officer that his own arrest was a foregone conclusion. But failure to pay child support is not a crime. At least, not in the traditional sense, though states do criminalize it. It's rightly a civil matter. Skipping child support court should similarly not be a crime either. This means that a bench warrant for failing to appear in child support court isn't about catching criminals -- it's bill collection, only with a collection agency bristling with lethal and other weapons, and acting under color of law. This raises some serious questions about what exactly we want our heavily armed law enforcement officers to be doing. Not all ``warrants'' are created equal. Sometimes there are warrants for arrest, which are issued for alleged murders, drug dealing or sexual assault. Then there are cases like the Scott case. Bench warrants for deadbeat dads are not arrest warrants for crimes. Don't get me wrong. Deadbeat and absent dads are one of the most serious and often overlooked threats to our collective well-being today. Forget the school-to-prison-pipeline. Lousy parents are the prison pipeline ; particularly symptomatic of this problem are absent and deadbeat dads. Still, given our justifiably dim view of deadbeat dads and child support court scofflaws, there is ultimately something Dickensian in our remedy for enforcement. First, it's important to keep in mind that nearly every instance of a family court's intrusion into the private family unit is an undesirable event. Yes, parents who can't resolve noncustodial support can turn to the courts, but once the courts and law enforcement are involved, they do things their way. And it almost always could have been avoided if the family could have resolved issues on their own. South Carolina family courts enforce their child support orders through civil contempt proceedings. Oftentimes and sadly so, papa is a rolling stone, and he falls behind on his payments. When a supporting parent has fallen behind, the court clerk sends dad an order to show up in court and explain why he should not be held in contempt for violating the payment order. At the hearing, that parent may demonstrate that he is not in contempt by showing that, well, he would love to pay, but right now he's just in the process of getting himself together -- and he actually has a job interview tomorrow or some variation of the well-established language of support shirkers. The bottom line is dad can try to demonstrate he's too poor to pay his child's support. If he fails to demonstrate this inability, the court may hold him in civil contempt and actually imprison him, unless and until he purges himself by making the required child support payments. What follows is typically a macabre combination of a telethon, a game show and debtor's prison. The defendant calls friends and family to crowdfund his down payment to get out of jail. If he can't, he'll be stuck in jail until he does pay. And let's face it : While it's hard to drum up a lot of sympathy for deadbeat dads, jailing someone for their debt makes it a little difficult to, you guessed it, earn money to pay that debt. Of course, since getting yelled at in court or sent to jail is unpleasant, dads have a remarkable ability to forget about court or get dates ``mixed up.'' The court's remedy is to issue a warrant to bring dad to court. That warrant is not technically a criminal arrest warrant, but it sure seems like an arrest warrant if dad gets picked up on a Friday afternoon and has to wait in jail all weekend to see the judge on Monday. The point is this : Some warrants are for the arrest of criminals. Those are the warrants we're familiar with, from ``Law & Order'' and every other cop show. Other warrants, like those for contempt of a support order, have nothing to do with crime. They're bill collection and are essentially civil in nature. Yet we've foisted that duty on the police as an ersatz collection agency. That's right, the same police charged with arresting dangerous criminals are also dragooned into bill collection for the courts. When they run a driver's name on a routine traffic stop and a deadbeat arrest warrant comes up, those same police who are armed with Tasers and firearms are suddenly tasked with arresting a guy for failing to pay his bills. Not because he's dangerous. Not because he's a criminal. Because he's ( breathtakingly ) financially irresponsible. Walter Scott might have run because he knew the drill. He knew he was going to be arrested. He shouldn't have run. But he also definitely shouldn't have been shot. If he owed $ 18,000 in arrears, he definitely shouldn't have been looking to buy a Mercedes, as his final words on tape at least seem to suggest he was planning to do. But whether or not he ran, the result would have been the same : If he had a bench warrant, he was going to jail, by force if necessary, even though he does not appear to have committed a ``crime.''. Of course, the counterargument is : If we don't arrest them, how else do we make deadbeat dads pay up ? There's no easy answer. But the better question may be : Why do we as a society not shun parents who don't take care of their kids ? Social rejection can be an even stronger motivator than the threat of arrest. Arresting deadbeat dads is an extreme solution, and one that could be solved with less government intrusion, and more community involvement. The Scott situation has highlighted some harsh truths. If we continue to arrest and jail deadbeat dads, we can't be surprised when an armed police officer uses excessive and deadly force to arrest them. While no one should be shot for failure to pay support, we're also training police that a warrant is a warrant and an arrest is an arrest. Are we comfortable as a society using an armed police force, empowered to use deadly force, to aid in collecting these bills ? If we are, then we have to be comfortable with the possibility that a delinquent dad is going to bolt when he gets stopped for a broken taillight. And if we're comfortable with that, then we also have to be comfortable with the police giving chase, and making the arrest -- sometimes with whatever force they deem necessary in the moment. Then, our only defense is to watch. And record. Note : An earlier version of this article did not make clear that states do make failure to pay child support a crime.
( CNN ) Thinking about presidential candidates ? Apparently, hormones are a major factor one should consider. According to one female businesswoman in Texas, Hillary Clinton shouldn't be president because her hormones might make her so irrational she'll start an unnecessary war. When George W. Bush waged an unnecessary war in Iraq -- was his testosterone to blame ?. As Cheryl Rios, the CEO of Go Ape Marketing, sees it : ``We're built differently, we have different hormones. In the world that we live in, I understand that there's equal rights and that's a wonderful thing and I support all of that. I don't support a woman being president.''. ``With the hormones we have there is no way we should be able to start a war,'' Rios wrote in a Facebook post. If Rios is concerned about hormones impacting decisions in the Oval Office, she'd be better off worrying about the male candidates for president. Throughout history, male hormones have indeed impaired some male leaders' decision-making. Studies show that women leaders take fewer unnecessary risks than their male counterparts. If science doesn't convince you, just Google ``cheating politicians'' for the long and sordid list of men like Arnold Schwarzenegger, Mark Sanford and John Edwards, whose hormones got the best of them. Rios has taken a lot of flak for her ``biblically'' inspired beliefs, but she's not the only one who's arguing that a woman's hormones are a legitimate leadership concern. Time magazine declared Hillary Clinton the ``perfect'' age to be president, because she's a postmenopausal woman who is ``biologically primed'' to lead. ( She also happens to be a former first lady, senator and secretary of state. ). I'm not joking. Believe me, I wish I were. No wonder Jon Stewart left ``The Daily Show'' before the election cycle ramps up in full swing. If discussions about a candidate's hormones are what we have to look forward to, the state of presidential politics is depressing indeed. But underneath the biochemistry debate is a much scarier consideration : The bias against women in the workplace is so well established that even in 2015, a female candidate will be hard-pressed to get elected unless we have a serious discussion about ending gender bias. We want to believe that we live in a world where our daughters can do anything and be anything. And you'd think they could -- they outnumber boys in college, graduate school and the work force. But what will limit their potential is not biochemistry or ability, but a bias in how women and girls are viewed. Unfortunately, Cheryl Rios' view of women is not unique. Some people believe women have ``our place'' and that place is not at the table. They'll tell your daughter to ``go for it'' but believe she isn't qualified to fulfill her dreams. In a compelling series about women and work, Wharton School professor Adam Grant and Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg lay out the startling facts about the bias women face at work and the profound benefit of eradicating gender stereotypes. The evidence of bias is undeniable and the examples are endless. It's overt : There are more men on corporate boards named John, Robert, William or James than there are women on boards altogether. The bias is also covert : When students rate their favorite professors, they describe the men as ``geniuses'' and the women as ``nice.''. The bias is real, yet so many of us are blind to it. Hillary Clinton might not be the perfect candidate, but the fact that she is a woman will make her road to the White House a much steeper climb. That's not just a problem for Democrats -- it's a problem for Republicans, Independents, everyone. The fact is, equality benefits everyone. It's better for the bottom line ( companies with more women in leadership roles make more money ). It's great for kids because children with involved fathers are happier, healthier, and more successful. It's great for marriages because couples that share responsibilities have stronger marriages. And it's great for corporate teams because diverse teams and companies produce better results. Our nation, our economy and our families would be much stronger if half of our companies were run by women and half of our households were run by men. It's not enough to say to our daughters : ``You can be anything you want to be.'' What we need to say is : ``You can be anything you want to be, despite what some people might think -- and what they think is wrong.''. Rios said that if Clinton is elected, she is ``moving to Canada'' because ``a female shouldn't be president.'' Apparently Rios knows as much about women and leadership as she knows about Canada : Kim Campbell became the country's first female prime minister in 1993. Correction : An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Canadians elected their first female prime minister, Kim Campbell.
( CNN ) U.S. President Barack Obama's recent explanation of how his administration will engage with the Middle East is far from reassuring to the region. In his interview with Tom Friedman from the New York Times on April 4, Obama explained U.S. foreign policy moves on Iran and Cuba, which Friedman described as the ``Obama doctrine.'' He stated that ``We will engage, but we preserve all our capabilities.'' By capabilities, the President must mean the tools, whether diplomatic, economic or military, to protect and defend U.S. interests. The doctrine is significant because it provides greater clarity about the U.S. policy under the rest of Obama's presidency. Instead of the ``new beginning'' that the President outlined in his much discussed Cairo speech in 2009, U.S. policy in the Middle East remains mired in a contradiction between principles and action on the ground. For example, the President asserted in the interview that ``the U.S.'s core interests in the region are not oil, are not territorial.. Our core interests are that everybody is living in peace, that it is orderly, that our allies are not being attacked, that children are not having barrel bombs dropped on them, that massive displacements aren't taking place.''. Yet, at the very moment that the President was offering this assessment, U.S. allies, such as the Arab Gulf states, Jordan, Lebanon and the legitimate government in Yemen, found themselves under serious threat and attack ; the Syrian regime was continuing to relentlessly bomb its own citizens ; and the Middle East was faced with the biggest refugee crisis in its history. Implementing the core U.S. interests outlined by Obama in the interview is clearly not working. There exist grave doubts about whether the current U.S. administration is indeed ready to deploy the above-mentioned ``capabilities.'' It seems that the U.S. will only use them when its national security is at stake. And those core interests are limited to dealing with terrorism and nuclear proliferation only and not the broader aspects mentioned by the President. The use of drone technology across the region, the military strikes being conducted against ISIS in Iraq and Syria and the framework agreement between Iran and six world powers on the Iranian nuclear programs are cases in point. Establishing a region ``living in peace'' is clearly not an instance where those capabilities will be deployed and is not part of the so-called Obama doctrine. In the same vein, the majority of the Arab world and the entire Gulf region look at the recently announced Iran nuclear deal with a sense of suspicion and trepidation. Having directly experienced the problematic interventionist Iranian policies for decades, the Arab world is simply not ready to give Tehran the benefit of doubt on any regional issue. But neither is it ready to trust U.S. assurances that outside a nuclear agreement, the U.S. will indeed put forward a concerted strategy to contain Iranian influence throughout the region or to defend the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) states against any Iranian threat. Instead, the fear is that as long as Iran abides by any agreement that might come into force later this year, the U.S. will negate, downplay, or simply ignore those Iranian actions that the Arab world considers as direct threats. Here, actions speak louder than words and unfortunately one sees only the latter coming from Washington. At a time when the region is faced with unprecedented turmoil and transition, the President even shifted the blame and directed his criticism toward the Arab world. When he referred to ``our Sunni Arab allies'' the President gave an exaggerated picture by saying ``populations that, in some cases, are alienated, youth that are underemployed, an ideology that is destructive and nihilistic, and in some cases, just a belief that there are no legitimate political outlets for grievances.''. What Obama failed to do is to highlight that this statement is in fact also applicable to Iran. In his interview, he never questioned Iran's appalling record on human rights, treatment of the political opposition, and minorities' rights, among other disturbing issues. Moreover the reference to Saudi Arabia being one of the ``Sunni Arab allies'' ignores the fact that there are non-Sunnis living in the Arab Gulf and adds to the existing destructive sectarian tensions as well as the sensitivity of the non-Sunni Arabs. Equally, the assertion that ``the biggest threats that they ( the Arab states ) face may not be coming from Iran invading. It's going to be from dissatisfaction inside their own countries..'' is another example of the detachment from reality. Based on a Gulf Research Center study, when there are 48 militia groups supported by Iran operating in Iraq and tearing apart the very social fabric of that country, it is simply naive to suggest there is no Iranian threat. The bottom line here is that U.S. and Arab national security interests are no longer on the same page. Ever since the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, those interests have increasingly diverged to the point that the Arab world is tired of false promises. The ongoing operation of ten mostly Arab coalition countries to protect the legitimate government of Yemen is simply the latest move that underlines the determination of Arab countries to take matters in their own hands. The GCC states may accept the invitation by the U.S. President to come to Camp David, his Maryland country retreat, and have an honest discussion with him about the situation in the region. But they question the value of being invited for purposes of being reassured when they are already being informed beforehand of what is wrong with them. The truth of the matter is that ``the region is ( not ) working'' and that misguided U.S. leadership and policies are among the reasons for the enduring tragedy in this region. Unfortunately, the ``Obama doctrine'' does little to change this and may in fact make matters worse.
( CNN ) Robert Bates, 73, shot and killed a man while playing cops and robbers with real police. Bates was a reserve deputy sheriff, which allowed him to ``work full time jobs in the community and volunteer.. time in a myriad of events such as the Special Olympics and Tulsa State Fair,'' according to the Tulsa County Sheriff Office's website. But Bates wasn't limited to crowd control at sporting events for the disabled. He had taken part in more than 100 operations with the violent crimes task force, according to his lawyer. On April 2, Bates thought he was going to use a Taser on Eric Harris, who deputies had just tackled after he sold an undercover officer a Lugar pistol and then took off running. But Bates wasn't holding a Taser. He was holding his gun. He fired one shot and killed Harris. From a policing perspective, there wasn't even good reason to use a Taser against Harris. Cops were on scene. Harris wasn't getting the upper hand. He wasn't going anywhere. And despite what Bates would later claim, Harris was not running like a man with a gun. In fact, Harris was running fast and his arms were pumping very much like a man who is not protecting a gun in his waistband. What was Bates, an insurance company CEO, doing there in the first place ?. It certainly looks like Bates was given special access to ``real'' policing. Harris had given $ 2,500 to Sheriff Stanley Glanz's re-election campaign. He donated cars to the department. He gave equipment. So it would be noteworthy if Bates ends up being convicted based on evidence provided by ``sunglass cameras'' that he may have purchased for the department. A Tulsa police official said the agency has 130 reserve deputies, many of them wealthy people who make donations to the police. ``That's not unusual at all,'' he told the Tulsa World. Maybe Bates could have been a reserve deputy without donating anything. But I doubt there are many volunteer septuagenarians working with the violent crimes task force. He was too old to be policing the streets. Tulsa police said that Bates had served a year in 1964 as a police officer. Most police departments have mandatory retirement ages. Federal law-enforcement officers, for instance, retire at 57. How easy is it to confuse a gun for a Taser ?. Police officers generally look with a skeptical eye toward volunteers. For one thing, it makes it tougher to push for a pay raise when people are offering to do your job for free. But departments also know that you get what you pay for. What is the point of background checks, psychological tests and the professional training police undergo if a person can donate a few grand and go out on patrol ?. Some people are a little too eager to be police officers. These people perhaps buy a police-like car for their personal car. Maybe they put in a police light or two. Some have actually made car stops. Police departments hate cop impersonators ( it's illegal, by the way ) and try and weed them during the hiring process. You want workers who like the job, but not too much ; there's a fine line between passion and fanaticism. That said, there are good volunteer police officers. New York City, for example, has auxiliary police. These officers received more limited training and they help with neighborhood events and other nonenforcement activities. They wear an NYPD uniform but do not carry a gun. Auxiliary police and similar programs reinforce the notion that the police are the public and the public are the police. Volunteers remind us all that policing is a noble public calling, and most police work does not have to be done by overly militarized SWAT officers. An auxiliary program also allows young recruits a way to dip their foot into the police world before taking the plunge. It can be a great benefit to everybody when potential officers discover the job isn't for them before they are locked into a 20-year commitment. What happened in Tulsa County is a disgrace to police professionalism, and the fallout from this disaster may push police departments to end these kinds of programs. That would be a mistake. Police departments should encourage more productive interactions between police and the public. But a line does need to be drawn.
( CNN ) It's clear from Hillary Clinton's campaign rollout -- a video announcement/campaign ad/short film that debuted Sunday afternoon -- that she will make women and being a woman central to her outreach. In case you're skeptical, Vox has posted a handy ``by the numbers'' for her campaign video, and there are 38 people besides Clinton in the two-minute ad. Twenty of them are women. There are three separate mentions of motherhood. This is all fine and good ( and predictable ) if you acknowledge that the proportion of women who vote has exceeded the proportion of men who vote in every presidential election since 1980. And let's not overlook the fact that Clinton is in fact a woman, and that's a fine thing to celebrate. But in reality, she doesn't have to wonder if a woman-centered campaign is the best strategy. She can simply look back to the most recent elections to see that overplaying to one half of the eligible-voting population failed spectacularly all over the country, in red and blue states, when that strategy was employed by both male and female candidates. As I've previously written, the 2014 midterm elections saw the death of a political meme : the ``war on women.'' Granted, that's not because Republicans convinced the country that they were the party of women. But it is noteworthy that Democrats who overtly pandered to women at the expense of real issues ( and men ) crashed and burned. To wit :. In Colorado, Sen. Mark Udall was nicknamed ``Mark Uterus'' for all the time he spent fear-mongering on women's reproductive issues, only to end up, according to exit polls, eight points ahead among women. His opponent, Cory Gardner, finished 17 points ahead among men. In New York, a Democratic candidate for Congress, Martha Robertson, drew laughs from the audience during a debate for accusing her opponent of engaging in a ``war on women.'' To repeat, she was a woman, a Democrat, in New York. In Louisiana, Sen. Mary Landrieu sought to give her ailing campaign a boost in by part blaming sexism for Democrats' lack of popularity in the South. Not surprisingly, Southerners voted for her opponent, Bill Cassidy. In Texas, where liberal Wendy Davis ran almost entirely on an abortion-rights platform, she accused Republicans of sexism for daring to scrutinize her inaccurate biography. Her opponent, Greg Abbott, won by 20 points, and Davis only ended up with 47 % of the women vote. Whether in Texas or Colorado, New York or Louisiana, voters made it clear they cared about more than just reproductive issues and weren't going to be bullied into voting Democratic by false cries of sexism. But while Democrats were screaming about the Republicans' ``war on women,'' few in the media acknowledged that the Democrats' deficit among men was actually greater than the Republicans' deficit among women. Exit polls in 2014 showed that men voted for Republicans over Democrats by a 16-point margin, and women voted for Democrats by only a four-point margin. Regardless of whom Republicans run for president, Hillary Clinton will most likely get the women vote. What she needs are men. So instead of running a woman-centered campaign, she might want to figure out a way to court the other sex.
( CNN ) Marco Rubio is all in. The Republican senator from Florida has announced that he is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, running on an optimistic message that he embodies the promise of the American Dream. With his youthful energy and Hispanic roots, it's tempting to see Rubio as the new blood that the GOP needs in order to compete against Hillary Clinton in 2016. Yet Rubio has been his own worst enemy on what could have been his two signature issues : immigration reform and Cuba relations. He holds little appeal to Latino voters. And unless he can offer new ideas, his climb to the Republican nomination will be steep. Back in 2013, Rubio was a member of the Senate ``Gang of 8'' that crafted a bipartisan proposal for comprehensive reform, including a path to citizenship for the nation's estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants. He later distanced himself from the bill after it ran into resistance from House Republicans, and now says he favors a piecemeal approach, starting with securing the border. His retreat on immigration means that Rubio has missed an opportunity to set himself apart from most of the presumptive Republican presidential candidates. That's a shame, for this issue was supposed to be his calling card to Latino voters. Instead, Rubio has embraced a typical conservative approach to immigration. He believes that President Obama's Deferred Action program, offering deportation relief to young immigrants, should be ended. He has stated that the President's executive action on immigration, on hold pending a circuit court review, sets a ``horrifying precedent.''. Meanwhile, both the Deferred Action program and President Obama's executive action on immigration are overwhelmingly favored by Hispanics. No wonder the research firm Latino Decisions reports that, ``We find no evidence that Rubio's candidacy will draw significant Latino support for his candidacy or for his party more generally.'' So, if Rubio is counting on his ethnicity and personal history as the son of immigrants to win over fellow Hispanics, he is mistaken. At a private breakfast Monday for supporters, Rubio described running against ``one candidate in the race who's from yesterday, and one who wants to take us back to yesterday.'' But when it comes to Cuba policy, Rubio himself seems firmly stuck in the past. Over the weekend, he called the recent thaw in relations between the two countries ridiculous. He has warned that Cuba is taking advantage of the United States. Here, he is an increasingly lonely voice. Most Americans support better relations with Cuba, as do a majority of Cuban-Americans. By clinging to the notion that isolating Cuba is better than engaging with the communist country, Rubio has marginalized himself on an issue where he could have provided insight and leadership. Immigration and Cuba policy aside, Rubio's political philosophy will be a tough sell to Hispanics. He is a fierce opponent of ``Obamacare'' and wants the law repealed. However, the Affordable Care Act has led to a 12.3 % drop in the Hispanic uninsured rate, making Latinos the demographic with the largest gain in insurance, thanks to the law. ( In fact, Rubio signed his own family up for ``Obamacare'' on the Washington exchange, taking advantage of a generous federal subsidy offered to lawmakers. ). Rubio favors smaller government, while Latinos are more likely than the general public to say they favor a bigger government that provides more services over a small government that provides less. And though Rubio doubts that climate change is caused by humans, The New York Times has noted that Latinos view global warming as a problem and favor government action on the issue. Sure, Rubio is young and charismatic. But his work on the failed immigration bill notwithstanding, Rubio has a significant lack of accomplishments to show for his five years in the senate. In February, he was reported as topping the list of absentee lawmakers by the website Politico. Another Rubio weakness is his lack of bold policy proposals. Consider that his fellow contender for the GOP presidential nomination, Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, has been willing to present new ideas to the Republican base, such as reforming the criminal justice system and legalizing medical marijuana. Or that another GOP candidate for president, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas is entirely comfortable with his image as a conservative firebrand. By comparison, Rubio seems cautious and ill-suited to the task of rousing Republican voters. With his early leap into the 2016 race, Marco Rubio is positioning himself as the next generation of GOP leadership. Unfortunately, a fresh face on stale ideas is not a winning combination -- not for Rubio, and not for Latino voters.
( CNN ) Sawyer Sweeten grew up before the eyes of millions as a child star on the endearing family sitcom ``Everybody Loves Raymond.'' Early Thursday he committed suicide, his sister Madylin Sweeten said in a statement. He was 19. ``This morning a terrible family tragedy has occurred,'' Madylin Sweeten said in a statement passed on by her manager Dino May. ``We are devastated to report that our beloved brother, son, and friend, Sawyer Sweeten, took his own life. He was weeks away from his 20th birthday. At this sensitive time, our family requests privacy and we beg of you to reach out to the ones you love.''. Sweeten, best known for his role Geoffrey Barone, was visiting family in Texas, entertainment industry magazine Hollywood Reporter reported, where he is believed to have shot himself on the front porch. Sawyer Sweeten was born in May 1995 in Brownwood, Texas. He was a year and a half old when he started on ``Raymond,'' playing next to his real-life twin brother Sullivan, who starred as Michael Barone, according to the website IMDb. Their sister, Madylin, played their TV sister Ally Barone. The show was about the adults, and the children, especially the twins, had bit parts, adorable cameo moments. In the beginning, they were too young to speak. The series developed a loyal following and ran from September 1996 through May 2005. According to his IMDb profile, Sawyer did not appear to take on acting roles after ``Raymond'' was discontinued. CNN's Sonya Hamasaki contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The NFL draft begins on April 30, and while the Tampa Bay Buccaneers are on the clock with the No. 1 overall pick, the clock is still ticking for another team -- the New England Patriots -- as they await the results of the ``Deflategate'' investigation, which has already lasted more than three months. In January, the NFL launched an investigation into the Patriots to determine why 11 of the 12 game balls they provided for the AFC Championship game were underinflated. The league hired attorney Ted Wells -- who also investigated the Miami Dolphins bullying scandal -- to run the investigation. Jeff Pash, the NFL's executive vice president and chief counsel, is assisting Wells in the effort. The league has also retained Renaissance Associates, an investigatory firm with sophisticated forensic expertise, to assist in reviewing electronic and video information. But three months later, it's still not clear when the investigation will be completed and when the findings will be announced. ``We have not put a time frame on Ted Wells,'' NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said March 25. ``We asked him to be thorough, complete and when he is finished with that -- he'll give that to us and to the public in general.''. On Monday, CNN reached out to Wells and the NFL for an update on the investigation but has not heard back. On January 18, the Patriots beat the Indianapolis Colts 45-7 to advance to the Super Bowl. They scored 28 of their points in the second half -- after game officials had pumped the balls back up to their regulation pressure -- so it's unlikely that the ball pressure made much difference in the outcome of the game. In February, Colts General Manager Ryan Grigson said at the NFL Combine in Indianapolis that prior to the AFC Championship game, his team notified the league of its concerns about the footballs. ``We went into the game, we had some issues, but we are going to do what we can and that's to participate with the league and the investigation and wait until the Wells report comes out,'' Grigson said February 19. ``We really have no other recourse than to wait until that investigation comes out.''. Each team provides a dozen footballs to the referee for testing two hours and 15 minutes before kickoff. The home team also supplies 12 backup balls, and for outdoor games, the visiting team has the option of bringing another 12 balls. NFL rules state the referee ``shall be the sole judge as to whether all balls offered for play comply with these specifications. A pump is to be furnished by the home club, and the balls shall remain under the supervision of the Referee until they are delivered to the ball attendant just prior to the start of the game.'' The ball attendant brings the footballs to the field, and ball boys keep them on the sideline. It's been speculated that deflated footballs are easier to grip for the quarterback and receivers. However, there isn't a consensus by players on that view. The day after the AFC Championship game, Patriots quarterback Tom Brady called the accusation of using deflated footballs ``ridiculous.'' A few days later, he told reporters he has always played by the rules. Following a practice on January 24, Patriots head coach Bill Belichick said that the Patriots try to do everything right. ``At no time was there any intent whatsoever to try to compromise the integrity of the game or to gain an advantage,'' Belichick said at the time. ``Quite the opposite, we feel like we follow the rules of the game to the letter in our preparations, in our procedures.''. After arriving in Arizona for Super Bowl XLIX, Patriots owner Robert Kraft said he expects the NFL to apologize if the investigation does not uncover any wrongdoing. ``Many jump to conclusions and made strong accusations against our coach, quarterback, and staff questioning the integrity of all involved,'' Kraft said then. ``If the Wells investigation is not able to definitely determine that our organization tampered with the air pressure in the footballs, I would expect and hope the league would apologize to our entire team and in particular coach Belichick and Tom Brady for what they have had to endure this past week.''. In terms of punishment, the Patriots could be fined and/or docked a draft pick. After Spygate in 2007 -- where the Patriots illegally videotaped the New York Jets defensive coaches' signals -- the league took away a Patriots first-round draft pick, fined the team $ 250,000 and fined Belichick $ 500,000. However, it's not expected that the punishment would be that serious for Deflategate. In March, two other teams were punished by the NFL for different rules violations. Cleveland Browns General Manager Ryan Farmer admitted to using his phone to text the Browns staffers during games during the 2014 season. It's against the rules to use certain electronic devices during games. Farmer will be suspended without pay for the first four regular-season games of the 2015 season, and the Browns were fined $ 250,000. During the suspension, Farmer can not be involved in any team matters and is prohibited from being at the Browns' offices, practice facility or at Browns games. According to the league, there was no evidence in the NFL's review that Browns ownership or any other team executives had knowledge of the prohibited conduct. The Atlanta Falcons acknowledged the use of prerecorded crowd noise, which is also a violation of NFL rules, during home games in the 2013 and into the 2014 season. The rule states that ``at no point during the game can artificial crowd noise or amplified crowd noise be played in the stadium.'' The Falcons were fined $ 350,000 and lose their fifth-round draft pick in the 2016 NFL draft. The league's investigation found that the Falcons' former director of event marketing was directly responsible, but that senior executives, including team president Rich McKay, were unaware of the use of the piped-in crowd noise. Still, McKay was suspended from the NFL Competition Committee starting April 1. Starting June 30, he can petition Goodell for reinstatement to the committee. As to what happens to the Patriots, and when, it's still anyone's guess. But Goodell has previously stated that a violation of rules will be taken seriously. ``Whenever there is a charge potentially of the violations of our rules, we take it very seriously and that's our obligation,'' Goodell said in March. ``That's our obligation to the other 31 clubs. Ted Wells will be going through the report. If there is anything that we as a league did incorrectly we will know about it in that report.''. What the heck is Deflategate ?
London ( CNN ) Police said Thursday that there was no sign of forced entry to a building in a spectacular holiday weekend heist of safe deposit boxes in the heart of London's jewelry district. Detective Chief Inspector Paul Johnson of the London Metropolitan Police Flying Squad said the thieves appeared to have gained access to the vault of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd through the shaft of an elevator that is used by several businesses in the building. The thieves disabled the elevator on the second floor of the building -- which would be the same as the third floor in the United States -- then climbed down the elevator shaft into the basement, he said. Once there, he said, they used a drill to bore through a 6-foot-thick wall and gain access to the vault where the safe deposit boxes were. Johnson said he had no figure for the value of what was stolen. A former police official in London has speculated that the loss could run to 200 million pounds, or 300 million dollars, in a remark widely reported by news media. And numerous British news organizations put the value of the loss in the hundreds of thousands of pounds. But Johnson said police were still identifying the owners of the ransacked safe deposit boxes and trying to contact them to learn what had been lost. People with knowledge of the area have speculated that cash and jewels were probably taken. Some jewelry businesses reportedly stored some of their jewels in the boxes rather than leaving them in their stores over the holiday weekend. Johnson said the scene in the vault remained chaotic as police continued their forensic examination. He said the floor was covered with dust and littered with safe deposit boxes and power tools. Over the four-day Easter holiday, an unknown number of thieves broke into the vault and might have been able to take as much as four days to rifle through the boxes. WATCH : Top five jewelry heists. Johnson called the crime sophisticated and said there were a limited number of people in the UK capable of having pulled it off. He said had no idea whether the thieves were still in the country. Although there was no sign of forced entry to the building, the detective said, ``whether that involves inside knowledge will form part of the investigation.''. Hatton Garden is a storied area in London and the heart of the city's diamond trade. The area's promotional website says it is home to ``the largest and most concentrated cluster of jewellery retailers in the UK'' and has been for quite some time. ``History tells us that the old City of London had certain streets -- or quarters -- dedicated to specific types of business,'' the website says. ``The Hatton Garden area has been the epicentre of London's jewellery trade since medieval times. ``Today, it maintains its international reputation as the centre of London's diamond trade. It is one of the finest and most renowned jewellery locations in the world.''. How was $ 4.8 million in gold swiped from a North Carolina highway ?. The website of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. says the company was founded in 1954 and offers a ``secure and cost-effective solution to store and protect important and irreplaceable personal belongings.''
London ( CNN ) British police investigating a spectacular heist in the heart of London's jewelry district said Friday they knew a burglar alarm went off but didn't respond. Southern Monitoring Alarm Company called the Metropolitan Police Service, also known as Scotland Yard, at 12:21 a.m. April 3 to report that the burglar alarm had been activated at Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd., MPS said in a prepared statement. ``The call was recorded and transferred to the police's CAD ( computer-aided dispatch ) system,'' the statement said. ``A grade was applied to the call that meant that no police response was deemed to be required. We are now investigating why this grade was applied to the call. This investigation is being carried out locally. ``It is too early to say if the handling of the call would have had an impact on the outcome of the incident.''. The theft was so big that police haven't come up with a value for what was stolen. Over the four-day Easter holiday, thieves broke into the vault of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. and might have been able to take as long as four days to rifle through the boxes. A former police official in London has speculated that the loss could run to # 200 million, or $ 300 million, in a remark widely reported by news media. Numerous British news organizations put the value of the loss in the hundreds of thousands of pounds. Detective Chief Inspector Paul Johnson of the London Metropolitan Police Flying Squad said police were still identifying the owners of ransacked safe deposit boxes and trying to contact them to learn what had been lost. The British tabloid The Daily Mirror claimed Friday to have obtained closed-circuit TV footage that captured the robbery being carried out. The video showed people inside the building dressed like utility workers with their faces covered. They carried large bags, what looked like drill equipment and other tools, then exited with trash bins. Toward the end of the video, a white van can be seen on a street during daytime with individuals loading back their gear and the trash bins. British police told CNN they have not released any video of the heist. When asked about the video published by the Daily Mirror, police said they could not confirm that it was footage from the Hatton Garden robbery and that officers have not seen that particular video. The Daily Mirror published time-stamped images it said showed that the thieves had been -- as was feared -- in the vault for days. The Mirror's time stamps, which CNN has not been able to independently verify, show employees locking up for the weekend at 9:19 p.m. on Thursday. If the footage, and its interpretation by the newspaper are correct, at least six people were involved in the heist. Just four minutes later, the first of the thieves, nicknamed ``Mr. Ginger'' by the newspaper for his red hair, appears in the building holding a black bag. He goes downstairs toward the vault. At 9:27 p.m., a street camera shows a white Ford Transit van pulling up to an alley beside the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit building. Men are seen dragging trash bins down the alley before the van drives away, leaving the men behind. Inside the building, at 9:30 p.m., the camera records a thief nicknamed ``The Gent'' for his natty clothing -- though he also wears a hard-hat and a high-visibility jacket labeled ``Gas'' on the back. A minute later, ``Mr. Strong'' appears, wearing a builder's hat and carrying steel supports, which the newspaper speculates could have been used to support the diamond-tipped drill used to smash through the wall of the vault. At 9:36 p.m., Mr. Strong and a thief nicknamed Mr. Montana for the logo on his hooded sweatshirt roll in trash bins, one of which might have contained, according the Mirror, the 77-pound drill that bored through the reinforced seven-foot concrete wall to reach the vault. It is unclear, but the thieves may have spent the night in the basement in or near the vault. At any rate, according to the Daily Mirror, no more activity is seen above ground until Friday morning, shortly before 8:00. The white van returns, is loaded in two minutes, and drives off again. On Saturday evening, Mr. Ginger returns, two days after he was first seen. The newspaper says is wearing latex gloves and carrying a black sack. He goes downstairs toward the vault. Saturday evening also marked the first appearance of the Tall Man, who helped carry some of the loot out of the building. Early Sunday, Mr Ginger, the Tall Man and a robber nicknamed the Old Man are seen to be active. The Tall Man and the Old Man struggle to move a bin before they drag it outside. The Old Man leans on the bin, struggling for breath, and reveals the side of his face to the camera. A white van arrives by the alley and the men start loading equipment on it, including several trash bins. Three men get into the white van and, at 6:44 a.m. they are gone. The heist would not be reported to police for two more days, on Tuesday morning when employees of the company arrived for work. Police said Thursday there was no sign of forced entry. Johnson said the thieves appeared to have gained access to the vault through the shaft of an elevator that is used by several businesses in the building. The thieves disabled the elevator on the second floor of the building -- which would be called the third floor in the United States -- then climbed down the elevator shaft into the basement, he said. Once there, he said, they used a drill to bore through a 6-foot-thick wall and gain access to the vault where the safe deposit boxes were. People with knowledge of the area have speculated that cash and jewels were probably taken. Some jewelry businesses reportedly stored some of their jewels in the boxes rather than leaving it in their stores over the holiday weekend. Johnson said the scene in the vault remained chaotic as police continued their forensic examination. He said the floor was covered with dust and littered with safe deposit boxes and power tools. WATCH : Top five jewelry heists. Johnson called the crime sophisticated and said there were a limited number of people in the United Kingdom capable of pulling it off. He said he had no idea whether the thieves were still in the country. Although there was no sign of forced entry to the building, the detective said, ``whether that involves inside knowledge will form part of the investigation.''. Hatton Garden is a storied area in London and the heart of the city's diamond trade. The area's promotional website says it is home to ``the largest and most concentrated cluster of jewellery retailers in the UK'' and has been for quite some time. ``History tells us that the old City of London had certain streets -- or quarters -- dedicated to specific types of business,'' the website says. ``The Hatton Garden area has been the epicentre of London's jewellery trade since medieval times. ``Today, it maintains its international reputation as the centre of London's diamond trade. It is one of the finest and most renowned jewellery locations in the world.''. How was $ 4.8 million in gold swiped from a North Carolina highway ?. The website of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. says the company was founded in 1954 and offers a ``secure and cost-effective solution to store and protect important and irreplaceable personal belongings.''
Los Angeles ( CNN ) She's one of the hottest and most successful Latinas in Hollywood, but now Sofia Vergara is playing defense in a legal battle initiated by her ex-fiance : He wants to keep the two frozen embryos from their relationship, both female. The 42-year-old actress and star of the hit TV sitcom ``Modern Family'' split from businessman Nick Loeb in May 2014. Loeb is suing the Colombian-born actress in Los Angeles to prevent Vergara from destroying their two embryos conceived through in vitro fertilization in November 2013, according to published reports by New York Daily News and In Touch magazine. The lawsuit cited by the two publications, however, lists the plaintiff as ``Joe Doe'' and the defendant as ``Jane Doe.'' The suit doesn't identify the names of the actual litigants. Instead, the suit asks the court to advance the matter anonymously to protect the two individuals' privacy. The two publications cited unidentified sources in their reports. On Tuesday, Loeb's attorney Abram Moore confirmed in a statement that Loeb filed the lawsuit. Representatives for Vergara declined to comment. Court papers allege the couple created the embryos while they were engaged, and their plan was to eventually have children together. On ``Modern Family,'' Vergara plays Gloria Delgado Pritchett, an eccentric and voluptuous Colombian immigrant who in recent episodes had a baby. But the sitcom make-believe is far from what Vergara is dealing with now. The lawsuit states the embryos should not be destroyed under any circumstances by Jane Doe until both parties reach an agreement. The suit also names as a defendant the clinic where the embryos are being held, the Art Reproductive Center in Beverly Hills. The center didn't respond to a message seeking comment Friday. According to the legal paperwork, the ex-couple had already used two surrogate mothers, one being a close friend of Jane Doe's, in an attempt to have children. However, neither of the implantations was successful. In his own statement, Loeb said he wants to implant the embryos in a surrogate and bring them to term, but he doesn't want any money from the egg donor. His statement doesn't directly identify Vergara as the donor, other than referring to his ``ex.''. ``I have previously offered to waive any parental or financial responsibilities or obligations on the part of my ex, and to even give her the opportunity to be involved with the child in the future, should she change her mind,'' Loeb said. He believes that ``life begins at fertilization,'' he said. ``Creating an embryo in the natural way can lead to parenthood obligations, even where a man doesn't want to become a father. Where a man does want to become a father, and wants to impose no obligations on the other party, he should have that corresponding right. However life comes to be created, it should have no determination on either the rights of wanting to be or the requirements of having to be a parent,'' Loeb said. In an interview with ABC in April 2013, while the couple was still engaged, Vergara spoke of how she helped create embryos and what motivated her to do it. ``We just wanted to plan ahead. My boyfriend Nick is three years younger than me and he's never had a son. I have my son, Manolo, so it's not that import ( ant ).. you know, it's not like an emergency for me to have another kid. For Nick, yes, because he's never had a baby,'' Vergara said. During the interview she seemed excited about wanting children with Loeb. ``I already froze some eggs so, you know, I wanted to take advantage of science. Why not ?'' Vergara said. The ABC anchor asked Vergara how far along she was in the process, to which the actress replied : ``I took them out already. They're in a refrigerator.''. Laughing, she added, ``Hopefully they'll be fresh by the time I use them.''. The case has led to questions about who has the right to embryos. Typically, a prior legal agreement between a couple spells out who has ultimate authority, said fertility specialist Dr. David Tourgeman, who's not involved in this case. ``Usually when embryos are created, whether the couple is married or just consenting adults, there's usually a power of attorney that is described to these embryos, if they are frozen for future use,'' he said. In most cases, the mother or the origin of the egg is given power of attorney, although anyone can make a request, Tourgeman said. If there's a disagreement, the courts usually get involved to decide who legally owns the embryos, he said. ``The documents that were signed during the fertility process will probably only apply in the case of death of one of the partners,'' he said. ``In the scenario where there's a disagreement as to who these embryos belong to, it will usually be decided by a court of law.''. But experts say this lawsuit is bringing up a lot of interesting issues. ``Religious, moral issues, to legal and contract issues. When does life begin ? Are these embryos alive ?'' said California attorney Vance Owen. ``To Catholics, for example, conception marks the beginning of life. To abortion advocates, the child has to be in a more advanced state, perhaps the third trimester, so it's a very interesting time to be discussing these life issues,'' Owen said. Owen said Loeb has a case because no court in California will allow the destruction of the embryos if both parties disagree. ``This case is a gray area of law because it's new,'' Owen said. ``It's developing as we speak,'' he said. ``It's a question, I think, of whether to decide if these frozen ( embryos ) are human beings or whether they are property. Since they are unborn, some states in the United States look at these ( embryos ) not as life, but as property.''. Owen said the lawsuit reportedly filed by Loeb will now open new issues, and a California court will have to decide to whom the embryos belong. ``These embryos are not inside her body,'' he said. ``They are in a nitrogen tank in a clinic in Beverly Hills, so there the Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri vs. Danforth case can not be used by the Sofia Vergara team to allege that the ( embryos ) would present some danger to her health as they did in that case.''. In that case, the U.S. Supreme Court declared a statute that requires parental and spousal consent for abortions to be unconstitutional. The lawsuit comes as Vergara promotes her new movie, ``Hot Pursuit,'' with co-star Reese Witherspoon. Vergara is now reportedly engaged to actor Joe Manganiello. CNN's Krecyte Villarreal and Stella Chan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) On April 20, 2010, a final cement seal of an oil well in the Gulf of Mexico failed, causing what has been called the worst environmental disaster in U.S. history and taking the lives of 11 rig workers. For 87 straight days, oil and methane gas spewed from an uncapped wellhead, 1 mile below the surface of the ocean. The federal government estimated 4.2 million barrels of oil spilled into the Gulf, but BP argued in court that it was much lower. A judge ruled BP was responsible for the release of 3.1 million barrels. Imagining Daddy : A rig worker's daughter and her dreams. There were dire predictions of what would follow. Environmentalists and others braced for an environmental collapse on a massive scale. Scientists continue to study environmental impacts, but five years after the spill, the long-term negative effects remain unclear and are, in many cases, highly disputed. BP, the company that caused the spill, is eager to point out it appears the Gulf of Mexico is healing itself. BP's vice president of communications, Geoff Morrell, said there is no doubt birds, fish, turtles, sub-sea vegetation and even sediment species were all affected in the immediate aftermath of the spill. Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. ``There's no question about that,'' Morrell said. ``But they have also, according to the data, bounced back and are recovering strongly.''. ``And there is no data that suggests there are any long-term population-level impacts to any species.''. While BP's assessment has not been disproven, the government suggests it's too soon to make long-term conclusions about the rebounding health of the Gulf. Shortly after BP released its own five-year report that concluded the Gulf has largely recovered, the trustees of the Natural Resource Damage Assessment called BP's report ``inappropriate as well as premature.''. The trustees, a collection of government agencies tasked with determining the extent of the damage from the Macondo spill, released a statement, saying, ``We know that the environmental effects of this spill are likely to last for generations.''. One government official familiar with the trustee's assessment accused BP of having ``cherry-picked'' positive results while ignoring others, something BP denies. Most long-term scientific studies on environmental disasters take longer than the five years that have passed. Studies so far have shown a variety of negative impacts on wildlife immediately after the spill, but others show some of those species are bouncing back. Fish landings in the Gulf, the amount of fish caught by the fishing industry, have returned. Oysters are also recovering in many areas. And according to the Food and Drug Administration, tests on edible seafood show no excess hydrocarbons in the region's food supply. The spill's effects on other species are less clear. Dolphins are dying at an accelerated rate along the Gulf Coast, and even more so in Louisiana where the oil hit the hardest. But the dolphin ``mortality event,'' as the government calls it, began months before the spill. Studies suggest the diseases dolphins suffer from in places like Barataria Bay, Louisiana, could be caused by oil exposure, but direct links to the 2010 Macondo spill have not been proven. Seaside sparrows in the Gulf are also showing signs of strain, and some studies cite oil as contributing to reductions in their overall abundance. While aerial surveys taken in 2010 suggest tens of thousands of sea turtles were exposed to oil in coastal waters, government agencies are still gathering data and have not concluded if the spill will have long-term effects on sea turtle populations. But perhaps the greatest unknown is what, if anything, millions of gallons of oil on the deep seafloor are doing to the overall environment of the Gulf itself. Oceanographers have been tracking the residue from the Macondo well as it has settled on the bottom of the ocean. Mandy Joye, an oceanographer with the University of Georgia, has used underwater robots to capture soil samples and run tests to determine just how far the oil has traveled. Her research and other studies show BP's oil is scattered in patches across more than 1,200 square miles of the seafloor. According to Joye's study the oil residue exists in thin layers in some areas of the seafloor and thick pockets in others. Joye is trying to determine how the oil deposited on the seafloor -- estimated to be about 10 million gallons -- affects the microbial community of organisms that exists in the deepwater ocean. ``That stuff's not going to stay put. It's going to move around,'' Joye said. She said that right now, there is just no way to tell if it will have an impact. ``There's so much that we don't know,'' Joye said. BP doesn't accept the results of Joye's work. The company said its oil is all accounted for and only exists in two places : within a 2 kilometer area around the wellhead and in tar mats and tar balls that have yet to be cleaned up on the beach. And according to BP's Morrell, the oil and residue that remains is no longer harmful. ``So much time has passed that it no longer has any toxicity and is therefore not a threat to humans or aquatic life,'' Morrell said. Ocean conservationist Philippe Cousteau witnessed much of the spill's aftermath in 2010, but when he returned to the Gulf to dive near an oil rig last month, he was astonished by the abundance of amberjacks, hammerhead sharks and other marine life he saw. During the same trip, however, Cousteau spotted a mother dolphin trying to revive a dead calf. It is unknown if its death had anything to do with the oil. Cousteau commended the progress community groups and restoration projects have made since the spill, but he said he believes it's far too early to say the Gulf is back and the oil is gone. ``It is still in many cases in the sand, along the shoreline, in the marshes,'' Cousteau said, ``and existing on a microscopic scale that we may not be able to see with the naked eye.''. CNN's David Matthews contributed to this report.
Garissa, Kenya ( CNN ) Kenyan police have arrested five suspects in connection with Thursday's attack at Garissa University College, Interior Minister Joseph Nkaissery said Friday, according to CNN affiliate NTV. Nkaissery told reporters the university will be able to confirm Saturday if everyone has been accounted for. Thursday's attack by al-Shabaab militants killed 147 people, including 142 students, three security officers and two university security personnel. The attack left 104 people injured, including 19 who are in critical condition, Nkaissery said. During search and recovery efforts on Friday, CNN witnessed one male who was not a student hiding under a bed. That male was taken into custody and was being treated as a suspect, sources close to the search told CNN. The find sparked an additional search of the building. Sources said three people, all students, were found alive. A female student was found under a pile of bodies, another female student was hiding in a wardrobe and a male student was hiding in the bathroom, the sources confirmed to CNN. Student Hellen Titus said she survived by fooling the attackers into thinking she was dead. After gunmen shot fellow students, she smeared their blood onto her body to make it seem she'd been shot, too, she told CNN on Friday at a makeshift center for evacuated students. ``In the time of shooting,'' she said, ``they skipped me.''. Most of the victims had been shot from behind, in the back of the head, a medic told CNN. ``They're facing down, always,'' a worker with St. John's ambulance service said Friday. ``They're always facing down, and they're shot in the heads, around the back.''. Al-Shabaab's long, bloody legacy with Kenya. Early Thursday, an explosion and gunfire cut through the morning quiet on the campus about 90 miles ( 145 kilometers ) from Kenya's border with Somalia, tearing many students in dormitories out of their sleep. ``Never heard anything like this,'' journalist Dennis Okari from CNN affiliate NTV tweeted as he watched smoke rising over a student hostel. Al-Shabaab gunmen had first stormed a Christian prayer service, where they killed some and took others hostage. Then they went across campus with them, shooting non-Muslims and sparing Muslims, a witness said. They headed for the hostels. Student Japhet Mwala lay in her bed. ``We were sleeping when we heard a loud explosion that was followed by gunshots, and everyone started running for safety,'' she told Agence France-Presse. Awaking to terror :' I am lucky to be alive'. ``There are those who were not able to leave the hostels where the gunmen headed and started firing. I am lucky to be alive because I jumped through the fence with other students,'' she said. Students ran -- some crawled -- away from the gunfire, Okari said. At one point, the gunmen pinned down a building where 360 students lived, Interior Minister Joseph Nkaissery said. Okari took cover outside the campus and listened to explosions and gunfire for four hours. Kenyan security forces moved in and killed four gunmen. Somali terror group Al-Shabaab, an al Qaeda affiliate, claimed responsibility for the attack. The Interior Ministry has posted a ``most wanted'' notice for a man in connection with it. It offered a reward of 20 million Kenyan shillings, about $ 215,000, for Mohamed Mohamud, who goes by the aliases Dulyadin and Gamadhere. The post does not say what role the man may have played. Kenyan police are circulating ``Wanted Dead or Alive'' posters featuring eight terror suspects who are wanted in separate attacks in Kenya, the Interior Ministry said. Police are offering a bounty of more than $ 210,000 for the suspects, the Ministry said via Twitter. The dangerously porous border between Somalia and Kenya has made it easy for Al-Shabaab militants to cross over and carry out attacks. In a December attack at a quarry, Al-Shabaab militants separated Muslims from others and executed the non-Muslims, killing at least 36 people. In November, militants stopped a bus near the border and killed 28 people they believed to be non-Muslims. Last month, the U.S. Embassy warned of possible attacks ``throughout Kenya in the near-term'' after the reported death of a key Al-Shabaab leader, Adan Garaar, who was suspected in the September 2013 Westgate Mall attack in Nairobi. Opinion : A weakened Al-Shabaab lashes out. Police have declared a curfew for the next several days in the region from 6:30 p.m. to 6:30 a.m. The Education Ministry has closed the university indefinitely. Surviving students have gathered in large groups at the town's airport, waiting to be flown to their hometowns. The effects are also being felt 225 miles west in Kenya's capital of Nairobi, where the new bloodshed reinvigorated an old debate : Is the nation's security strong enough ?. Many thought measures taken after the Westgate Mall massacre had filled the gaps. At least 67 people died then. But Thursday's attack is the second-worst in the country's history, and it has evaporated much of the confidence won after Westgate. Civil liberty concerns had held up the enrollment of 10,000 new police recruits, but on Thursday, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta gave a directive to process them. ``Kenya badly needs additional officers,'' he said, ``and I will not keep the nation waiting.''. The problems plaguing Kenya's security efforts. CNN's Christian Purefoy reported from Garissa, and CNN's Ben Brumfield wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Brian Walker, Vasco Cotovio and Lillian Leposo also contributed to this report.
Rome ( CNN ) Italian authorities said they had launched a ``vast anti-terrorism operation'' Friday, going after suspects associated with al Qaeda who had discussed a range of targets, including the Vatican. Some members of the terrorist cell had direct contact with al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden before his death in Pakistan in 2011, wiretaps showed, Italy's state-run ANSA news agency reported. And wiretaps and other intelligence revealed that the group planned to carry out terrorist attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as in Italy, according to Caligari Chief Prosecutor Mauro Mura. Some evidence indicated the Vatican was among the targets considered, police said. Talk of this took place March 2010, around the time a possible suicide bomber from Afghanistan entered Italy, Mura said. Police said, too, that some of the suspects were involved in a Pakistani market bombing in 2009 in which more than 300 people were killed and injured. The suspects had been under surveillance for years, some as far back as 2005, police said. On Friday, Italian State Police closed in, carrying out raids in seven provinces in what they called a first-of-its-kind operation. One of the raids targeted the alleged terrorist cell's headquarters on the island of Sardinia. The operation, which is still going on, is expected to result in the arrest of 18 people, most of them from Pakistan, said spokesman Paolo Meloni, who represents the police in Sassari, Sardinia, where the investigation is being coordinated. Some suspects had an abundance of weapons and moved cash around the world, police said. One was apprehended on a flight from Italy to Pakistan while carrying 55,000 euros, or nearly $ 60,000, police said. Meloni said the provinces in which the raids were being carried out included Frosinone and Macerata, which are in central Italy, as well as Bergamo, in the north. Some of those expected to be arrested are suspected of having been involved in the 2009 car bombing in Pakistan, Meloni said. In that bombing, in a bazaar in the northwestern Pakistani city of Peshawar, 137 people were killed and more than 200 were injured. Still other suspects are suspected of involvement in migrant trafficking, he said. Police said the group tried to recruit to its cause the migrants it transported. CNN's Hada Messia reported from Rome, CNN's Don Melvin reported and wrote from London and CNN's Greg Botelho reported and wrote from Atlanta.
( CNN ) A dress worn by Vivien Leigh as she played Scarlett O'Hara in ``Gone With the Wind'' has fetched $ 137,000 at an auction. That's a pretty healthy profit for the collector who bought the outfit decades ago for a mere $ 20 as it was on the verge of being tossed out. The outfit, a gray two-piece ensemble, was sold at an auction in Beverly Hills, California, on Saturday, according to Heritage Auctions. It was the most sought after item among roughly 150 pieces of ``Gone With the Wind'' memorabilia on sale in the auction. They come from the huge collection amassed by James Tumblin, who used to work at Universal Studios. Tumblin said he came across the Scarlett O'Hara dress in the early 1960s while doing some research at a costume company. ``I saw this dress on the floor and a docent told me not to bother to pick it up, because they were throwing it away,'' he said, according to The Telegraph. ``I asked if he would sell it to me,'' he said. ``I had noticed there was a printed label saying Selznick International Pictures and `Scarlett production dress' was written in ink.''. From that savvy purchase, his ``Gone With the Wind'' collection snowballed. Other standout items include a straw hat worn by Leigh in a number of scenes in the movie and a gray wool suit worn by Clark Gable as his character, Rhett Butler, kicks down the door of Scarlett O'Hara's boudoir. The dress -- a jacket and full skirt ensemble -- was worn in several key scenes in the 1939 movie, including when Scarlett O'Hara encounters Butler and when she gets attacked in the shanty town. The outfit has suffered a little with age, however. When Leigh wore it in the movie, it was slate blue-gray. Over the years, it's faded to light gray. But that didn't deter the winning bidder on Saturday.
( CNN ) Sleek chassis, alluring paintwork and a need for speed, but these are no ordinary motors. When pedal hits metal, an eco-friendly process gets set in motion. Powered by electricity and engineered for efficiency, car enthusiasts from across Africa are sparking home-grown concepts that have gotten experts revving. In Zaria, a city in northern Nigeria, a team of students from the Ahmadu Bello University are currently applying the final touches to the ``ABUCAR 2.''. The students used locally available materials to build the vehicle, and even included recycled electrical components in the engine. While it runs on gasoline, the engine maximizes fuel efficiency and produces fewer emissions than normal cars. ``We are sure we have a great car,'' says the project's supervisor Muhammad Dauda. ``Now we are focusing on making some final enhancements to hone the driving strategy -- this is just like Formula One.''. Their compact creation, which was built over five months, will travel to The Netherlands in May to compete in the European leg of this year's Shell Eco-marathon -- the motoring competition rewards those who travel the longest distance using the least amount of fuel. But the team is also working towards a hybrid petro-electric motor, which they hope to unveil in 2016. At low speeds the vehicle will be powered by electricity alone, but at higher speeds both electric and petrol components will work together. Between extremes, excess power generated by the engine recharges the batteries that power the electric motor. It's the model that Toyota uses in the Prius. Green-focused designs like these are increasingly needed on the continent, as some studies say 50 % of global emissions of organic carbon could come from Africa in 2030. At May's Shell Eco-marathon, ABUCAR's team will be hoping to race past the sleek ``Autonov III'' creation from the University of Lagos. Painted the colors of the Nigerian flag and powered by a solar battery, the car's aerodynamic teardrop shape helps minimize drag. Constructing earlier iterations of this vehicle was put under stress in 2013 when university teachers went on a six month strike, but the industrial action didn't stop the team from tinkering with the electric engine. ``We've used small tires to reduce the overall weight of the vehicle,'' explains team manager Chukwuemeka Isiogu. ``We've trained ourselves to just think about fuel efficiency and create the most efficient vehicle.''. Other eco-friendly engineers are less about sleek and more focused on comfort. Uganda's Makerere University has produced a two-seater electric car called ``Kiira EV''. With a super-light fibreglass body and lithium ion battery, the car can go 50 miles on a single charge. The design project cost $ 35,000, but the engineers made sure to include leather seats and a CD player. Whilst working on the Kiira, the team is also developing an 28-seater electric bus which will run on a mixture of electric and solar power. Innovative creations have also come from the University of Benin in Nigeria. Their ``Tuke-Tuke'' car -- named after local mini-buses -- is made from locally available materials. The brake pads, for example, are made from palm kernels. Tuke-Tuke also has some key features that will come in handy when slipping through the city's streets. Windscreen wipers start automatically when rain hits the sensors, gears can be changed with the touch of a button and owners use their finger rather than a key to unlock the doors. And when it gets dark, the driver just needs to clap their hands to turn on the interior lights. Elsewhere, engineers are working on green vehicles for the whole family. One Ghanaian inventor is building SUVs with electric motors powered by rechargeable batteries. Apostle Safo, who also founded a church, dreams big in his five-seater creations which are hand built in Gomoa Mpota, except for the headlights and tires. While he says the product will be affordable, it remains to be seen just how much a handmade SUV would cost. These innovations certainly are impressive concepts, but it's unlikely electric vehicles will be filling roads on the continent any time soon -- it is unclear how economically viable it would be for governments and companies to build the right number of charging points, but the issue of power itself is even more pressing. ``Reliability when it comes to electricity supply is key,'' says South African sustainability consultant Anthony Dane. ``Convincing consumers across Africa to invest in an electric vehicle whilst electricity shortages are such a major issue in so many communities is a challenge.''. Read this : Africa's 10 most prosperous countries. More from Marketplace Africa. Editor's Note : CNN Marketplace Africa covers the macro trends impacting the region and also focuses on the continent's key industries and corporations.
( CNN ) From banking to hospitality and real estate to e-commerce, Ashish Thakkar built his vast business empire from scratch. The Ugandan tycoon started small with a little computer shop that kept him busy after leaving school at 15. These days, his Mara Group spans over 20 countries and he's been called ``Africa's youngest billionaire.''. In late 2013 Thakkar joined forces with the former boss of Barclays bank -- Bob Diamond -- to start an investment fund focused on Africa called Atlas Mara. The powerful duo raised $ 325 million through a share flotation - well above the $ 250 million target. But his vision spans beyond Africa, and Earth -- Thakkar was the first African to sign up for the opportunity to travel to space with Richard Branson's company, Virgin Galactic. CNN's Marketplace Africa spoke to Thakkar about African innovation, entrepreneurship and collaboration. An edited version of the interview follows. CNN : You are active in several African countries. How is the current business landscape on the continent ?. Ashish Thakkar : Right now in the last 18 years I have been active on the continent, I have never seen so much global excitement around Africa that I've seen today. The climate and the ease of doing business on the continent has drastically improved. Unfortunately, it's one of those cases where perception is so different from reality. The reality on the ground is so much better than the perception. You've got to remember, as Africa, we are 54 countries. Some of the countries may be challenging and may have issues, but that can not be an excuse to generalize the entire continent which is unfortunately something that happens quite a bit. CNN : Why do you think that entrepreneurs are so important to the future growth of the African continent ?. AT : We have a very young demographic -- 85 % of our populations are under the age of 35. We have an extremely entrepreneurial society and culture. Yet, entrepreneurship is not in the education system. Where do our entrepreneurs go for advice and the right guidance ? And it's something, frankly, that I am extremely passionate about, because the answer to unemployment is not foreign direct investment or large scale manufacturing plants, etc. It's going to be nurturing small and medium enterprises. So, it's great to see that there is a real entrepreneurial vibe coming into the system, and innovation is totally embedded into that. CNN : What is it about Africa that encourages innovation ?. AT : The biggest advantage we have at the moment, and you've seen this with mobile phone penetration, is that we don't have legacy systems. We didn't have landlines and we didn't need them. We didn't have to go through that hassle of creating landlines everywhere. We leapfrogged straight into mobile telephony. Today, we have over 750 million phones on the continent -- more than North America and Western Europe put together. We can actually leapfrog in so many different ways. Mobile money is another brilliant example. Mobile money was created in Kenya. The whole concept of having money on your phone, which is the best thing because it's secure, it's practical, made more sense. So, these kind of innovations, you're going to see a lot more of on the continent. I spend a lot of time with young entrepreneurs when I travel across the continent, and just seeing the kind of innovation and new ideas and concepts that they're coming up with is just so inspiring. CNN : What advice would you give to a young entrepreneur who's just starting out ?. AT : Entrepreneurship is a journey, it's not a destination. There are going to be so many challenges, you are going to get knocked down so many times, but you've got to get up, dust yourself off and get back to it. The persistence, the passion, and staying on course is very crucial. You'll be tempted to cut corners, you'll be tempted to do things that get you there quicker, but it never lasts. People say the youth are the leaders of tomorrow - we're not. We're the leaders of today, but it's our responsibility to take the seat at the table. CNN : What needs to be done most urgently to grow African economies ?. AT : Pan-African collaboration is extremely important. I think things like regional integration, inter-African trade does need to increase and is increasing. I mean, the progress in the East African community has been amazing. The manner in which they've harmonized so many different laws and policies and mindset and priorities within that region has been fantastic. So, we need to see more of that take place on the continent. The fact that we're 54 countries, yet we're a billion people is an advantage and a disadvantage. I think to strengthen our weakness in that collaboration across the continent is crucial. CNN : Are you confident about the future of the continent ?. AT : I am so bullish and so proud of how the continent has evolved in terms of leadership, the mindset of our leaders. It is so inspiring to see that. It's unfortunate that, you know, globally the highlight remains things like Ebola.. The little issues that we do have are just magnified, yet on the broad scale we are doing so amazing. CNN : Is this Africa's century ?. AT : Mara's logo is the African Lion and our little joke, which a lot of people don't appreciate, hence I love it even more, is that the Indian Tiger and the Chinese Dragon have had their days and it's now the African Lion's turn. And it genuinely is -- this is our turn. More from Marketplace Africa. Read this : Africa's green lean speed machines. Read this : Family ties mixed with fresh fruit on island paradise. Editor's Note : CNN Marketplace Africa covers the macro trends impacting the region and also focuses on the continent's key industries and corporations.
Sao Paulo, Brazil ( CNN ) Brazilian police have arrested the treasurer of the ruling Workers' Party, bringing the bribery investigation at the state-run oil company Petrobras a step closer to President Dilma Rousseff. Federal police arrested Joao Vaccari Neto at his home in Sao Paulo on Wednesday morning. Vaccari faces charges of corruption and money laundering as part of the broader probe into corruption at Petrobras. Former executives who have turned state's evidence claim that construction companies paid large sums under the table to Petrobras officials and politicians in order to secure lucrative contracts with the oil giant. Vaccari has denied any wrongdoing and recently told a congressional commission that all donations to his party were legal and were reviewed by electoral authorities. Vaccari is the closest political figure to Rousseff so far implicated in the investigation. Rousseff herself has not been implicated, although she was the chairwoman of Petrobras when much of the alleged corruption took place. Rousseff has insisted she supports the probe and has not in any way interfered with the investigation. Sources quoted in Brazilian media have said investigators are looking at whether some of the bribes went toward Rousseff's election campaigns. Anger over what has ballooned into a multi-million dollar corruption scandal has eroded Rousseff's approval rating and prompted hundreds of thousands of Brazilians to take to the streets in protest. On Sunday, about half a million people participated in demonstrations across the country. But turnout was smaller than a month earlier, when roughly one million people marched in protest, raising questions about how long the demonstrations can last.
( CNN ) Well, the thought experiments are finally over. Hillary Clinton's online declaration for president means the focus will now shift to the campaign and to what kind of president she might be. And nowhere will the speculation be greater than in the area of foreign policy, certain to be a major issue in the upcoming campaign. Should she win, Clinton will add to her potential ``firsts'' : first woman president ; the first president who had been a first lady. There's another one, too : the first secretary of state to become president since James Buchanan. Only a handful of the nation's top diplomats have gone to the White House ( Thomas Jefferson ; James Madison ; James Monroe ; John Quincy Adams ; Martin Van Buren ; and Buchanan ). And none in the 20th century, a curious fact that suggests politics and statecraft are quite different animals. Too few of our secretaries of state have had the necessary experience of elected office or the desire, ambition and temperament to compete for the top job. Still, on balance, Clinton's tenure at the State Department should be a real advantage during the campaign, particularly when compared with the absence of foreign policy experience among her prospective Republican rivals. But this will be no cake walk for her on the foreign policy side. Clinton will have to negotiate and traverse several tricky and rocky paths to ensure that her State Department career remains an advantage and doesn't turn into a liability. Here's why :. The last president to serve in a top job in the administration of his immediate predecessor was George H.W. Bush. Circumstances were different then. Far from wanting to distance himself from Reagan, Bush 41 saw merit in reinforcing the association with a president who dominated his day in a way few chief executives have. Clinton will face a harder balancing act : how to stand by the policies that she helped craft in Obama's first term and still separate herself from an administration her opponents will blast as weak, vacillating and fairly or not, responsible for a world that is seen to be much worse, especially in the Middle East and with Russia, than when President Obama took office. In the process, she'll have to define her own approach to the world. Indeed, given the President's vulnerabilities on foreign policy, she can't afford to be seen as Obama's third term. In her memoir ``Hard Choices,'' she's already laid the foundation for distancing herself from Obama on issues such as doing more for the Syrian opposition and being tougher on Russia's Vladimir Putin. And she can legitimately work to sharpen those differences without seeming to walk away from policies she supported and leaving herself open to charges that she has no principles, only politically expedient tactics. Too much loyalty to a president who is unpopular among independents will hurt her. But so will flip-flopping. Nowhere will her challenges be greater than on Iran. Clinton presided over the secret channel that laid the basis for the November 2013 interim accord and led directly to the putative understandings reached between the United States and Iran earlier this month in Lausanne, Switzerland. And she certainly can take credit for pushing tough sanctions that forced Iran to the table. The problem, of course, is that her Republican opponents and more than a few Democrats hate what the negotiations have produced. Much less enamored with the Obama's ``let's engage our enemies'' trope, Clinton may have doubts herself. The good news is that there won't be an agreement for months. So for now, she can back the importance of tough negotiating and even tougher sanctions or worse, should the Iranians cheat. But sooner or later, perhaps as early as June if there's an agreement, Clinton will have to take a stand on what may well be a very problematic and unpopular accord and what Congress' role should be. Her opponents, the Israelis, and much of the organized Jewish community, will portray it as even worse, and that is likely to be somewhat problematic and will be hyped as even worse. And this will put her at odds with traditional friends and supporters in the Jewish community. Frankly given her political interests, it would be easier for her candidacy if the agreement fell apart and she could campaign on a tough anti-Iranian message, hammering the mullahs' repressive policies at home and their mischief-making in the region. She may not be that lucky. Still she will have an advantage in dealing with the pro-Israeli community. Unlike President Obama, the Clintons have strong credentials on the Israeli issue. And that will help somewhat in trying to walk a narrow line between a negotiating process with Iran that Clinton launched and its fruits, which are seen by many Israelis and American Jews right now as too generous to the mullahs. Clinton's time at the State Department should help her in a presidential campaign where Americans are looking for strong and prudent leadership in foreign policy and more adult supervision in the White House. The Republicans will try and show that Benghazi and the email controversy have tarnished her image as secretary and claim she didn't accomplish much. Clinton wasn't a Henry Kissinger or a James Baker. But given the problems she confronted -- Iran, stalled Israeli-Palestinian two-state negotiations ( none ready for any kind of solution or breakthrough ) and a president who dominated rather than delegated foreign policy, she performed ably enough. She improved the nation's image and pushed 21st century issues such as women's rights, youth, and the environment. Her critics will dismiss all this as a kind of naive planetary humanism. Still, four years as secretary of state will help her project the kind of confidence and competence that will appear to many as an important credential to lead America in a dangerous and turbulent world. And in a presidential campaign where none of her opponents has her long experience in international affairs, that can only help. Clinton's biggest challenge on the campaign trail and in office should she win is whether she can develop a foreign policy vision and an effective approach to the world that strikes a better balance between the risk-readiness of George W. Bush and the risk-aversion of Barack Obama. And given the cruel and unforgiving nature of the world America now inhabits, this will be no easy task.
Washington ( CNN ) Decision time for GOP operatives, another controversial foreign policy choice for President Obama, a ripple effect from the Robert Menendez indictment, and two insights into Hillary Clinton's campaign launch -- those stories filled our Sunday trip around the ``Inside Politics'' table. Obama's Iran diplomacy already has his conservative critics fired up, and things could get even more interesting in the week ahead. The President is headed to Panama for a regional summit, and Julie Pace of The Associated Press reports one of the big questions is whether he'll make history and have a face-to-face meeting with Cuban leader Raul Castro. ``This would be the first meeting between a U.S. and a Cuban leader in decades,'' said Pace. ``But Obama's efforts to end this freeze of Cuba have been a lot more difficult than they looked when he announced it last year,'' Pace said. ``And so what the White House is going to be weighing is whether this meeting would be a way to generate more progress or whether it would be a premature reward for the Castros.''. Hillary Clinton has leased her headquarters space in Brooklyn and will soon make her presidential campaign official. And with the launch, Jonathan Martin of The New York Times reports, will come a carefully orchestrated effort to reintroduce Clinton -- with an emphasis on her childhood and her earlier work on children's issues. ``The Democrats around Hillary Clinton believe that while she's one of the most famous people in the world, she's never been properly introduced in her own right,'' said Martin. ``So when she does roll out her campaign here in a couple of weeks, look for more biographical touches. We'll hear about her childhood in suburban Chicago and some of the work that she did as an advocate for the Legal Services Corporation and the Children's Defense Fund when she was in her 30s, and also, more about her Arkansas days as first lady, as an advocate for education.''. A lot of the big names signing on to Team Clinton are already known. But Dan Balz of The Washington Post explains part of the statement her campaign wants to make with the announcement is to show it has a large, experienced staff ready for the key national and state roles. ``What I'm hearing is that when they launch, this staff is going to be even much, much bigger than we, at this point, imagine, that they have done a huge amount of hiring,'' said Balz. And Balz reports the planning centers on smaller events designed to highlight more personal interaction. ``She did an event with the wife of the mayor of New York earlier this week that could be a template for the kinds of things they're doing.''. Much of the media attention on the corruption indictment against Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey has been on its allegations of luxury hotel stays with girlfriends. But beyond the more tabloidesque details, Jackie Kucinich of The Daily Beast notes that one of the charges centers on a suggestion the senator's staff was soliciting funds for a so-called super PAC -- a violation of campaign finance laws. And she says the scrutiny of that practice might grow because of the Menendez allegations. ``I was talking to some campaign finance watchdogs this week and they say if the ( Federal Election Commission ) really starts to look into this, they're actually going to find some impropriety with other lawmakers much much farther than Menendez,'' said Kucinich. ``So watch for that if it starts happening.''. By a week from Monday, there will be three official GOP candidates for president : Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and Marco Rubio. Others will soon follow, and as things get more official, pressure is mounting on GOP operatives to choose sides. In New Hampshire this past week, Matt Maroney, a former Mitt Romney alum with ground organizing experience, signed on with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's team. Others in the state reported calls coming in from Ohio Gov. John Kasich and, yes, even Donald Trump. This dynamic plays out on the national level, too : Republican pollster Tony Fabrizio, for example, was approached both by Team Christie and by allies of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker. In the end, though, Fabrizio signed on with Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, who makes his official announcement on Tuesday.
( CNN ) Chile's Calbuco volcano erupted twice in 24 hours, the country's National Geology and Mining Service said early Thursday. The agency said it was evaluating the spectacular nighttime eruption, but indicated it was ``stronger than the first one.''. About 23 1/2 inches ( 60 centimeters ) of ash fell in some places, according to the Ministry of Interior and Public Safety. Authorities issued a red alert for the towns of Puerto Montt and Puerto Varas in southern Chile. Both are popular tourist destinations. A 12-mile ( 20 kilometer ) exclusion zone was established around the crater. Military and police forces were assisting with the evacuations of more than 4,400 residents, the Interior Ministry said. The first eruption on Wednesday set off a bit of a panic in the region. ``At the beginning, it was small, and later, the cloud grew and later there was a huge cloud over you and true terror starts,'' said one Puerto Montt resident. Another person said : ``It was impressive to see an enormous mushroom cloud, with the immense force of the volcano, and to see the ashes. At that point, there was a lot of panic, lots of chaos, traffic jams, people going to supermarkets, everyone looking for water, trying to take out money from the ATMs.''. The eruption is a first for many in the region. The last major eruption was 1962. There was a minor eruption in 1972. Calbuco also belched out a bit of gas and smoke in 1996. Alejandro Verges, regional director at the Ministry of Interior and Public Safety, said Thursday afternoon that officials are concerned there might be a third eruption. ``The situation is relatively calm right now, although people are understandably anxious about what could happen tonight,'' he said. CNN's Shasta Darlington and Marilia Brocchetto contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Most companies in South Korea have hoesik at least once a month and sometimes every week. Literally, this means dinner with co-workers. In practice, it means official eating/drinking fests involving multiple rounds of alcohol at multiple venues. For the foreign business traveler, using foreignness as an excuse to bow out of the action only goes so far. The pressure to participate is intense. Drinking etiquette is the first thing you teach foreign guests,'' says Bryan Do, a Korean-American director at the South Korean branch of a U.S. company. ``It was shocking when I first arrived in Korea. ``My boss was a graduate of Korea University -LSB- renowned for its hardy drinking culture -RSB- and at my first hoesik, we started out with everyone filling a beer glass with soju, and downing it on the spot. That was just the beginning.''. For Koreans, drinking is considered a way to get to know what someone is really like. ``I didn't really like it in the beginning,'' says Charles Lee, a Korean-Canadian who came to Seoul to work for a South Korean company. ``I was like, `Why are you making me drink something when I don't want to ?' But once I understood the meaning behind it, I appreciated it more. ``There are just some things you can't say at work or talk about over lunch -- people who talk about work at lunch are losers. But when someone offers you a glass of soju, it's an invitation that means that they want to listen to you. ``I thought Koreans were impersonal before I drank with them, so the whole context is important.''. Drinking is such a big part of Korean life that Seoul traffic is said to correspond with the city's drinking culture. Mondays are a big night for hoesik, so there are fewer cars during evening rush hour, as most office workers leave them at work so they can go drinking. Tuesdays are a rest day, while Wednesday and Thursday nights are also big nights for company drinking. Fridays have the worst evening traffic, as everyone is taking their cars home to use with their families over the weekend. So how do you avoid offending someone ( worst of all, a superior or client ) at a Korean drinking extravaganza ?. Follow these seven handy rules. Koreans always identify the ``higher'' person in the relationship, and defer to them accordingly. One of the first things Koreans often ask when meeting someone new is their age. Even someone just a year older is afforded a language of respect, though age is always superseded by a higher position. It's considered rude for anyone to have an empty glass. If a senior person is pouring -- this usually pertains to hard liquor only -- others shouldn't drink until someone has poured the senior a shot. After all glasses are full, everyone says ``Gunbae !'' and chugs -- usually ``one-shotting'' the entire glass in one go. While downing alcohol, you should turn your body away from senior figures so that your body visually blocks your drinking action from your senior. Always hold bottles or shot glasses with both hands. By raising your glass or pouring alcohol with one hand, you are establishing yourself as a senior person. If you're not, well, you've just breached protocol. It's always a good idea to find out people's drinking habits beforehand. It shouldn't be difficult to find out what people like to drink or how they behave when intoxicated. Hoesik usually involves changing venues for a different type of alcohol -- i.e., round one is dinner, accompanied by beer, round two is soju, round three is for whiskey, and so on. Be ready for each. Unless you have an airtight reason, refusing alcohol is considered a mood killer and deemed rude. Sorry, but ``I don't like soju'' doesn't qualify as a good reason not to punish your liver. Neither would ``I've been on the wagon for three years.''. In fact, unless you're pregnant or already puking, what might be a ``good reason'' not to imbibe elsewhere often won't fly here. It's generally best to accept and discreetly get rid of unwanted alcohol ( under the table, into your water cup, out the window ) than to refuse it. One of the most popular venues in Korea for business drinking is the karaoke bar. Koreans love singing, as evidenced by the country's staggering number of karaoke bars, as well as the rush of audition programs on Korean television. Your companions won't rest until you sing. They'll coax, threaten, push and cajole until you finally take that mic. Be prepared to crack under the immense peer pressure. If you simply can not take any more, you can call a black knight ( male ) or a black rose ( female ) to your rescue. This entails a person of your choosing drinking your glass for you, but it also means they get a wish. As in, you might soon wish you'd just taken that last shot as you're spelling your name out with your butt in front of your client. Bottoms up. Christopher Cha is a Korean-American writer based in Seoul.
( CNN ) Indiana Gov. Mike Pence issued an executive order Monday to extend a public health emergency in his state in response to a rampant HIV outbreak that first began in mid-December. As of Tuesday, there were 135 cases -- 129 confirmed, and six preliminary -- of HIV. The increase has been linked to injection drug use, primarily of the prescription opioid opana. Pence issued an order in March for Scott County, which then had 79 confirmed cases of HIV since mid-December. The county normally averages about five new cases a year. ``Scott County is facing an epidemic of HIV. But this is not a Scott County problem -- this is an Indiana problem,'' Pence said in March. Officials expect more cases as more individuals are tested, particularly because it can take up to three months for HIV to appear in a person's system after initial infection. The emergency order was first issued last month and set to expire Friday, but now will be in place until May 24. It calls on multiple state agencies to coordinate a response to the unprecedented outbreak and provides additional resources. Law enforcement, emergency agencies and health officials are working together. Most notably, a temporary needle exchange program that began April 4. As of Tuesday, more than 4,300 clean syringes had been distributed and more than 3,100 used needles had been turned in, according to the Indiana Department of Health. A team from the CDC Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention was working on site with state and local officials. In extending the public health emergency declaration, the governor said : ``While we've made progress in identifying and treating those affected by this heartbreaking epidemic, the public health emergency continues and so must our efforts to fight it.''
( CNN ) Here's a pop quiz : What's better for America's status in the world ?. A ) Being a global leader in innovation, job creation, education, social mobility, literacy and child health. B ) Being a global leader in imprisoning the highest number of human beings -- its own citizens. It's an obvious answer. But the unfortunate reality is that the United States leads the world in incarceration, not education. Our country has shown time and again a nearly unlimited capacity to reinvent itself and move closer to the ideals on which our society was founded. Yet we have emerged as the global leader in a race that no nation would want to even be a contender in. While our country is home to only 5 % of the world's total population, we are home to 25 % of the world's prison population. And nearly three fourths of this population is comprised of nonviolent offenders. At the same time, we are losing the increasingly important race to educate our citizens. Where the United States was once ranked first in high school graduation rates, we now rank 23rd in high school completion among 30 of the world's most developed nations. Where we were once the driving force of the global economy, we now rank fifth in the World Economic Forum's global competitiveness index. Key metrics in this index include the quality of a nation's primary, secondary and higher education systems. Instead of empowering the next generation of American artists, scientists, engineers, inventors and entrepreneurs, our country has chosen to devote a massive amount of resources, time and energy to locking people up. By imprisoning individuals, we also burden families, condemn generations to cycles of poverty and breed economic inequality. In the 1980s and 1990s, Congress chose to adopt laws that drastically changed the way our country handled nonviolent drug crimes. Since then, the American prison population has increased by nearly 800 % over the past 30 years. Over 2.7 million American children have a parent who is incarcerated, and 10 million American children at one time in their lives had a parent in prison. Americans of color are disproportionately burdened by the failures of our justice system. There are more black men in prison or under state or federal supervision today than there were enslaved in 1850. And while African Americans make up only 13.6 % of the total U.S. population, they make up a whopping 40.2 % of the U.S. prison population. The sad reality is that in today's America, prisoners are never truly free from the burdens of our criminal justice system. A report from the Center for Economic and Policy Research concluded that once released from prison, an ex-offender's prospects for obtaining employment statistically decreased. The report estimated that, in 2008, ex-offender employment losses cost our economy the equivalent of 1.5 to 1.7 million workers, or $ 57 billion to $ 65 billion annually. It's therefore no surprise that American prisons have become revolving doors, with two out of every three former offenders rearrested within three years of their release. The millions of wives, sisters, husbands, daughters, sons, friends and the people they love who have been incarcerated are burdened disproportionately by an outdated, archaic and overly punitive system. These millions of Americans have the ability to advance our country, our economy and our global competitiveness. They just need to be given the opportunity. American taxpayers aren't free from the burdens of our criminal justice system either. In addition to the billions lost in jobs and productivity, Americans spend over a quarter of a trillion dollars each year to keep millions of nonviolent, low-level offenders imprisoned. The price tag is truly staggering. It costs on average $ 29,000 a year to house one inmate at the federal level. In contrast, our country spends a little over $ 11,000 dollars a year per elementary school student. Imagine the good we could do if we could re-appropriate those tens of billions of dollars in taxpayer money and economic losses away from imprisonment and toward investment in our children's future. We must start to deconstruct the perverse order of our priorities and build a more just society by making needed changes at the federal level. We must examine the way our criminal justice system works -- or rather, doesn't -- and take the necessary actions to change it. Fortunately, there is already a road map for successfully addressing these problems. We know reforms will work because they already are in states across the country. In both blue states such as New Jersey and Connecticut and red states such as Texas and Georgia, state and local officials have developed and instituted sweeping reforms that have reduced their prison populations and crime rates. They are succeeding by focusing their efforts on areas where the criminal justice system most needs reform. We should follow their example on the federal level. First, we should pass legislation that promotes ``front end'' reform, such as ending mandatory minimum sentencing for nonviolent drug crimes. Secondly, we should pass legislation that enacts ``behind the wall'' reforms, such as eradicating the cruel practice of juvenile solitary confinement. And thirdly, we should enact ``back end'' reforms with legislation that assists in sealing criminal records and removing barriers to employment for nonviolent formerly incarcerated people. As we reform our criminal justice system at the national level, we will alter the cycles of poverty and recidivism that plague too many American communities and start to develop virtuous cycles of excellence. Instead of putting resources toward juvenile detention centers, we can put resources toward afterschool programs that have proved to help keep kids out of the juvenile justice system and in school. Instead of losing valuable contributors to our economy because of their status as ex-offenders, we can develop apprenticeship and training programs that improve worker skills and jump start our economy. Instead of asking American taxpayers to pay for warehousing people who commit nonviolent, low-level, crimes, we can make sure that students of all ages have access to math, science and technology schooling that will help them excel in the workforce and as productive members of society. Let's devote our resources to empowering our citizens, not imprisoning them. Let's choose to raise our expectations as a country, and let's meet them.
New York ( CNN ) Jake Tapper is the next anchor of CNN's Sunday morning political interview program ``State of the Union.''. CNN announced Tapper's promotion on Friday morning. He will take over the program in June ; he'll remain the channel's chief Washington correspondent and the anchor of the weekday afternoon newscast ``The Lead.''. Among his peers, Tapper is seen as an authority on politics, something a program like ``State of the Union'' demands. He received rave reviews when he was the interim anchor of ABC's Sunday morning hour ``This Week'' in 2010. ``I couldn't be more excited about this election season and the new platform I will have at CNN to cover it,'' Tapper said in a statement.'' `State Of The Union' has a rich tradition and I hope to not only build on its history but expand the definition of what a Sunday show can be.''. Tapper thanked CNN Worldwide CEO Jeff Zucker ``for the confidence he continues to show in me and to my colleagues at CNN for the incredible support on air and off that I've received since beginning this adventure two years ago.''. Tapper joined CNN from ABC in 2013 to anchor ``The Lead.''. On ``State of the Union,'' he succeeds Candy Crowley, who signed off the program last December. A rotation of fill-in hosts have been anchoring the program this year. Zucker announced Tapper's appointment on the network's editorial conference call on Friday morning. ``I am thrilled that Jake will take on this additional role at such a pivotal time in the election cycle,'' Zucker said in a statement. ``He has the perfect combination of skills that make him uniquely qualified -- he's a relentless reporter, a gifted storyteller, and a terrific interviewer who doesn't stop until he gets answers. We are lucky to have him on both `The Lead' and `State of the Union.'''. Sunday political programs are among the most prestigious chairs at television networks. And changes are afoot : CBS is about to say goodbye to Bob Schieffer, the longtime moderator of ``Face the Nation,'' who will be succeeded by John Dickerson in June. Additionally, NBC replaced David Gregory with Chuck Todd on the original Sunday public affairs program, ``Meet the Press,'' last fall. With the anchor moves at the other networks, CNN may see an opportunity for what's known in the industry as share-shifting -- viewers switching networks and sampling the new anchors. With his new position, Tapper will become the second man to work weekdays and Sunday mornings. ABC's George Stephanopoulos is both a co-host of ``Good Morning America'' and the moderator of ``This Week.''. There is precedent for this at CNN : for many years Wolf Blitzer anchored on the weekdays and led the Sunday morning program ``Late Edition,'' the forerunner to ``State of the Union.''
Sanaa, Yemen ( CNN ) Saudi airstrikes over Yemen have resumed once again, two days after Saudi Arabia announced the end of its air campaign. The airstrikes Thursday targeted rebel Houthi militant positions in three parts of Sanaa, two Yemeni Defense Ministry officials said. The attacks lasted four hours. The strikes caused no casualties, but did destroy all three military compounds that were targeted, the officials said. They said Saudi airstrikes were also targeting Houthi positions in Lahj province. On Tuesday, Saudi Arabia announced the end of its Operation Decisive Storm, a nearly month-long air campaign against Houthi positions. The Saudi-led coalition said a new initiative was underway, Operation Renewal of Hope, focused on the political process. But less than 24 hours later, after rebel forces attacked a Yemeni military brigade, the airstrikes resumed, security sources in Taiz said. Five airstrikes targeted a weapons depot in the province late Wednesday, two Taiz security officials said. They said explosions lasted for about 40 minutes. Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners started pounding Houthi positions across Yemen starting on March 26, hoping to wipe out the Iranian-allied rebel group that overthrew the Yemeni government and seized power. The Saudis say they want to restore the Yemeni government -- a key U.S. ally in the fight against al Qaeda -- which was kicked out of the capital by the rebels earlier this year. This month, Saudi officials said airstrikes have degraded Houthi-controlled military infrastructure, including key buildings in Sanaa. The campaign achieved its objectives ``by a very good planning, very precise execution, by the courage of our pilots, our sailors, our soldiers,'' said Brig. Gen. Ahmed Asiri, a Saudi military spokesman. A senior Saudi official told CNN that the Houthis agreed to ``nearly all demands'' of the U.N. Security Council. A statement from the Saudi Embassy in Washington outlined objectives of the next phase of operations, including protecting civilians, enhancing humanitarian and medical assistance, confronting terrorism and creating an international coalition to provide maritime security. Ground troops will continue to protect the border and confront any attempts to destabilize the situation, Asiri said. Military action will be taken if needed. Houthi leader : `Anyone who thinks we will surrender is dreaming'. On Wednesday, Houthis released Yemeni Defense Minister Mahmoud al-Subaihi in Sanaa, a senior Saudi source said on the condition of anonymity. The Houthis had said they detained the defense minister at an air base near the Yemeni port city of Aden on March 26, shortly before the Saudis began their airstrike campaign. The rebels had captured the base that day as part of an advance on the Aden area. The United Nations demanded al-Subaihi's release earlier this month. But beyond the military campaign, the Saudis and their allies have said they want to find a political solution for the violence-plagued nation. President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi, who says he's Yemen's legitimate leader, thanked the Saudi-led coalition. He is working with the Saudis and other allies to return to his country. ``We promise to restructure the Yemen military to ensure that it serves the people of Yemen,'' Hadi said, calling on the Houthis to withdraw, and saying that he would return to Yemen at ``the right time'' to rebuild the country. ``You will witness many changes in the days to come in our mission to build an institutional government and military, far from rebel militancy.''. Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen ?. Hakim Almasmari reported from Sanaa ; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq, Salim Essaid, Nic Robertson and Josh Levs contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Emergency operators get lots of crazy calls, but few start like this. Caller : ``Hello, I'm trapped in this plane and I called my job, but I'm in this plane.''. Operator : ``You're where ?''. Caller : ``I'm inside a plane and I feel like it's up moving in the air. Flight 448 can you please tell somebody ( to ) stop it.''. The frantic 911 call came just as the Alaska Airlines flight had taken off from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on Monday afternoon. The caller was a ramp agent who fell asleep in the plane's cargo hold. The cell phone call soon broke up, but the man was making himself known in other ways as the crew and passengers reported unusual banging from the belly of the Boeing 737. The pilot radioed air traffic control and said he would make an emergency landing. ``There could be a person in there so we're going to come back around,'' he told air traffic control. The ramp agent who took the untimely nap and caused all the fuss is an employee of Menzies Aviation, a contractor for Alaska Airlines that handles loading the luggage. He'll no longer have the option of dozing aboard one of the airline's planes. ``The Menzies employee has been permanently banned from working on Alaska Airlines planes,'' said Bobbie Egan, a spokeswoman for the airline. Flight 448, which was on its way to Los Angeles, only spent 14 minutes in the air. Other than being scared, the agent never was in any real danger. The cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled, the airline said. The passengers knew something wasn't right, almost as soon as the plane took off. ``All of a sudden we heard all this pounding underneath the plane and we thought there was something wrong with the landing gear,'' Robert Higgins told CNN affiliate KABC. Not everyone heard the banging, but it was soon clear this wasn't a normal flight. ``We just took off for L.A. regular and then.. about five minutes into the flight the captain came on and said we were going back and we'd land within five to seven minutes, and we did,'' passenger Marty Collins told affiliate KOMO. ``When we landed was when all the trucks and the police and the fire trucks surrounded the plane.''. ``I think it's scary and really unsafe, too,'' Chelsie Nieto told affiliate KCPQ. ``Because what if it's someone who could have been a terrorist ?''. The employee started work at 5 a.m. and his shift was scheduled to end at 2:30 p.m., just before the flight departed. The agent was off the two days prior to the incident and had taken a lunch break and a break in the afternoon before making his way into the cargo hold, according to a source familiar with the investigation. The man had been on a four-person team loading baggage onto the flight. ``During a pre-departure huddle, the team lead noticed the employee was missing. The team lead called into the cargo hold for the employee and called and texted the employee's cell phone, but did not receive an answer. His co-workers believed he finished his shift and went home,'' the airline's blog said. It's believed he was hidden by luggage, making it difficult for the rest of his team to see him, the source said. All ramp employees have security badges, and undergo full criminal background checks before being hired, according to the airline. After the delay, the flight with 170 passengers and six crew members on board made it to Los Angeles a couple of hours late. CNN's Dave Alsup, Joshua Gaynor and Greg Morrison contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The United States is urging China to release five young feminists who face years in prison over their campaign for gender equality. Authorities detained the women in three cities -- Beijing, Guangzhou and Hangzhou -- a few days ahead of events planned for International Women's Day on March 8. ``Each and every one of us has the right to speak out against sexual harassment and the many other injustices that millions of women and girls suffer around the world,'' U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement Friday. ``We strongly support the efforts of these activists to make progress on these challenging issues, and we believe that Chinese authorities should also support them, not silence them.''. The detention of Wei Tingting, along with Wu Rongrong, Li Tingting, Wang Man and Zheng Churan has drawn harsh criticism from the international community. Protesters in several cities have called for their release and taken to social media with the phrase ``free the five'' as a hashtag. Wang Qiushi, the lawyer for Wei, said police recommended Monday that prosecutors press charges of ``assembling a crowd to disturb public order.''. Prosecutors have seven days -- until Monday -- to decide whether to pursue the charges, according to the lawyer. ``We can do nothing but wait,'' Wang said. The five were initially held on suspicion of ``picking quarrels and provoking trouble.'' Wang said he didn't know why the charge against the women changed. ``Neither should constitute a crime,'' he said. Campaign group Amnesty International said the new charge was less serious but still carried a maximum prison term of five years. ``The women were doing nothing wrong, nothing illegal. They were simply calling for an end to sexual harassment,'' said William Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International. Wang said that Wei was subjected to lengthy cross examinations during her detention. Two of the women are said to be in poor health. He added that the charges relate both to the activities the women planned for International Women's Day and earlier campaigns against domestic violence. The five are members of China's Women's Rights Action Group. They had planned to hand out stickers with slogans saying ``stop sexual harassment, let us stay safe'' and ``go police, go arrest those who committed sexual harassment !'' on International Women's Day. This week, Kerry's predecessor, Hillary Clinton, tweeted that the activists' detention was ``inexcusable.''. Chinese authorities rebuked her comment, saying public figures should respect the nation's sovereignty and independence. CNN's Katie Hunt and Shen Lu contributed to this report.
( CNN ) This week, Hillary Clinton surprised the world yet again -- not with the official launch of her campaign but for the unconventional way she did it. She sure pushed the envelope. With her video, new logo and road trip, she opened a long communications campaign not only to ``rebrand'' herself but to completely reframe who she is, what she stands for and how she intends to run. We'll find out over the next year and a half whether it will work. Many in the press and on late-night television scratched their heads this week ; others were scathing. Ruth Marcus -- a columnist for the Washington Post -- dismissed her launch video as a ``relentlessly, insultingly vapid'' effort of ``demographic box-checking.'' Jon Stewart lampooned it as a ``State Farm commercial gone viral'' and also ``boring as s --.'' Since the media will likely be the stand-in primary opponent for Hillary, their belief in her authenticity is a critical factor in whether she can reframe herself in voter's eyes. But from a marketing perspective, her launch may have been much more successful than critics think. The YouTube announcement video took on the central strategic challenge for the campaign and candidate : To flip Clinton's message from self-absorbed ``I'' to empathetic ``we.''. While critics may sneer, it is hard to deny that the image it projects of Hillary is more confident, fresher, simpler and forward-looking, with even a bit of the upstart feel of two of the most successful product launch companies, Nike and Apple. Clinton's team may have begun to create an empathetic relationship with voters that has eluded her in the past, most crucially when she lost the nomination fight to Barack Obama in 2008. In marketing terms, rebranding is a strategy to bring a new name, term, symbol or design to an established brand with the aim of developing a new identity in the minds of consumers. Reframing is a strategy that goes further : it seeks to change how a consumer ( or voter ) emotionally experiences an established brand. A rebrand may change how you think about a brand ; a reframe may change how you feel about it. In the Apple case, the company at one time fell on its face when it unveiled the original Macintosh ; some thought the company was headed for oblivion. But when Steve Jobs returned as CEO, he went back to the drawing board and soon unveiled the iPod, which not only changed the way consumers thought about Apple, but how they experienced it. Not only a rebrand -- but a reframe. Take Hillary's road trip to Iowa in the van nicknamed Scooby. The press lampooned her, but I would bet that for many others, her unscripted and anonymous stop at Chipotle reinforced the ``everyday Americans'' campaign theme. Hillary stood in line to order, an everyday customer among everyday people at an everyday fast-food chain. Also introduced last week was what will come to be the single most-ubiquitous element of her campaign : Clinton's new and controversial campaign logo. It is a brilliant, iconic expression of the emotional connection she wants people to have with her, her message and her movement. In fact, her logo is all about movement. Simple, confident, high tech and shorthand to a much younger set of voters, the bold red arrow moving left to right in front of the strong blue H says it all : You are the important ones. I'm here to support you with everything I've got. Let me help you move forward. Taken together, all the pieces of Clinton's announcement -- as well as the unconventional media she used to deliver them -- bring her back on stage not as a leader from yesterday but, surprisingly, as one for the future. Coincidentally, the way Marco Rubio announced his run for the Republican nomination most likely amplified the impact of Clinton's reframing. For all his posturing about being the new generation, Rubio followed to a ``T'' the most traditional script for announcing a candidacy : traditional stage and podium, dark suit, bright tie, wife and kids on camera, a live speech, all about himself, timed for the evening news. Rubio's logo, the signature of his image, drew immediate criticism for being amateurish and unconsidered, even leaving Alaska and Hawaii off the map of America. In stark contrast, Hillary showed the confidence and finesse to buck tradition on every front. It was Hillary who pulled the ultimate jiu-jitsu. There are those, of course, who will be alienated, if not disgusted, by the way her campaign has unfurled such a sophisticated marketing plan. In a day when voters are yearning for authenticity, how do we know this is the real Hillary or a candidate in a mask ? Fair question. But for better or worse, mass marketing has become the staple of presidential campaigns -- that's where most campaign dollars go. Both sides know how to play, sometimes brilliantly. Remember the Reagan advertisements of 1984, proclaiming ``Morning in America'' ? What we know is that over time, voters see a lot of unscripted moments of a candidate where the real character comes through. And if they spot hypocrisy between ads and the candidate, that campaign will get into trouble fast. That's why the key to Hillary Clinton's success in reframing her message and movement will be consistency. She must not only take the essence of a humble, empathic relationship with voters and integrate it into all elements of her communication, she must also live it every day. Otherwise there will be messaging ``schizophrenia,'' the solid start with flashes of brilliance will peter out and she'll be facing the same voter perceptions that doomed her race in 2008. In the meantime, one can imagine Clinton getting a huge, satisfying belly laugh out of the early returns on her efforts.
( CNN ) In baseball, there's a traditional comeback after a tough season : ``Wait'til next year !'' For climate change ``next year'' is now. This year is the time and the United Nations' international climate negotiations in Paris in December are the place to secure strong global agreement to curb heat-trapping emissions. A successful climate pact will send a signal around the world that a shift to a low-carbon economy is underway. The United States has made clear that it is ready to step up to the plate on climate change. The U.S. administration on Tuesday unveiled details about its proposal to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by 26 % to 28 % below 2005 levels by 2025. This common-sense and achievable plan to decarbonize the U.S. economy will result in significant cost savings from cleaner technologies and create more American energy jobs to power our homes and businesses. This is an area where the United States needs to lead, and doing so will create a better planet for our children and a more prosperous future for our country. The United States isn't alone in this global climate effort. In a landmark joint announcement with the United States in November, China unveiled its intent to peak its carbon emissions around 2030 and to double its share of zero-carbon energy to 20 %. This shift will require substantial effort from China to retool its economy, increase investment in renewable energy and divest from coal. As the world's No. 1 investor in renewable energy, China has already taken important steps forward. At the same time, India has set the audacious goal of installing 100 gigawatts of solar power capacity by 2022, a 30-fold increase from current levels and eight times more solar capacity than the United States has today. Cities and corporations are joining in as well. More than 200 cities, home to 436 million people, have voluntarily committed to saving 13 gigatons of greenhouse gas emissions by midcentury. And more than a thousand companies, along with 73 countries, voiced support for putting a price on carbon and moving to cleaner energy technologies. Leading companies, like Apple and Google, are making major bets on renewable energy. And another 25 businesses have signed onto the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers' Principles -- these companies represent energy demand equal to more than 1 million homes. Increasing examples demonstrate that strong climate action can be good for the economy. For instance, renewable sources now provide one-fifth of the world's electricity, while solar manufacturing costs have dropped 80 % in the last seven years. Wind turbines installed now are 100 times better at generating power than turbines were 30 years ago. Clean technology investments surged to $ 310 billion last year. In the United States, carbon emissions fell by 10 % from 2007 to 2013, the largest absolute emissions reduction recorded, even as the United States has recovered from the Great Recession. Many of these shifts are unprecedented and could not have been anticipated even five years ago. Yet these trends alone are not enough to counter the mounting climate-related impacts that we are already seeing. A global climate agreement in Paris this December can send more signals to markets and drive more ambitious climate action for decades to come. A Paris agreement would represent a new form of international cooperation and a fundamental change in the global approach to climate action -- a shift from burden-sharing to the creation of mutual opportunities ; from cost to investment ; from economic threat to a spur to economic development. With the United States showing the way, and with cooperation from other countries, businesses, investors, cities and citizens, we can achieve a prosperous and secure future for all. Each year, baseball returns and hope springs eternal. Now, it's time for all countries to get in the game.
( CNN ) Ahmed Farouq didn't have the prestige of fellow al Qaeda figure Osama bin Laden, the influence of Anwar al-Awlaki, or the notoriety of Adam Gadahn. Still, he was a big deal. That's the assessment of multiple sources on a man who may not have been well-known in the West, but nonetheless had a special role in the terrorist group. Farouq -- an American -- died in a U.S. counterterrorism airstrike in January, according to the White House. Two al Qaeda hostages, Warren Weinstein of the United States and Giovanni Lo Porto from Italy, were killed in the same strike, while Gadahn died in another U.S. operation that month. Before that, Farouq was the deputy emir of al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent, or AQIS, a branch of the Islamist extremist group that formed in recent years. The branch made its presence known in September 2014, when militants infiltrated Pakistan's navy and tried to hijack one of its ships, according to the SITE Institute, which monitors terror groups. The group's spokesman, Usama Mahmoud, on Twitter compared the Pakistani naval officers involved in the attempted hijacking to Nidal Hasan, SITE reported. Hasan is the U.S. Army psychiatrist sentenced to death for killing 13 people at Fort Hood, Texas. Osama Mehmood, a spokesman for al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent, said that Farouq and another top figure, Qari Abdullah Mansur, were killed in a January 15 drone strike in Pakistan's Shawal Valley. They were senior al Qaeda leaders, according to Mehmood. American mouthpiece for al Qaeda killed. CNN's Sophia Saifi contributed to this report.
Tokyo ( CNN ) A week after a Japanese court issued a landmark injunction halting plans to restart two nuclear reactors in a western prefecture, a different court has rejected a petition by residents to delay the reactivation of reactors in the country's southwest. Kagoshima District Court found no ``irrationalities'' in new safety standards set out by the government in the wake of the 2011 Fukushima meltdowns, Japanese news agency Kyodo reported. By dismissing resident's demands, the court ruled that the Sendai nuclear power plant in Kagoshima could restart. The first of two reactors is scheduled to go back online in July. The ruling could provide a fillip to the government's plans to bring Japanese nuclear reactors back into operation, more than four years since the earthquake and subsequent tsunami that caused the failure at TEPCO's Fukushima plant. The original court ruling, which affects the Takahama plant in Fukui Prefecture, cited safety concerns as the reason for the injunction, a court official told CNN. Japan's nuclear watchdog, the Nuclear Regulation Authority, had previously given a green light to the reopening of reactors 3 and 4 of the Kansai Electric Power Company's plant. But locals successfully petitioned the court in Fukui, raising concerns about whether the reactors would survive a strong earthquake. Japan's 48 nuclear reactors are offline in the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011, when a tsunami triggered by a massive earthquake sent a wall of water crashing into the power plant. Since then, the island nation has imported greater amounts of expensive natural gas and coal to meet its energy needs. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pushed for a return to nuclear energy, arguing it is essential to the country's economic recovery to reduce the skyrocketing utility bills associated with energy imports. But opinion polls have consistently shown public opposition to a nuclear restart. Keith Henry, managing director of Tokyo-based Asia Strategy, which advises businesses on Japanese public policy issues, says the decision will force Abe to rethink the economics of his energy policy. ``That was a body blow ( for Abe ) because it's no longer a political issue, it's a legal issue. It changes the calculus and the dynamics,'' he said. ``It's now in the courts. And the government is powerless to do anything about it.''. READ MORE : Power company abandons robot stranded inside Fukushima plant. Anti-nuclear activists celebrated following the Fukui District Court's decision in their favor Tuesday. The nuclear plant operator had argued in court that the plant was safe, meeting heightened safety regulations introduced by the nuclear watchdog following the Fukushima disaster. It said in a statement that ``scientific and professional findings'' showed that the safety of the reactors was assured. But the court ruled that the new safety standards were ``loose,'' lacked rationality and could not guarantee the safety of the plant, an official said. The power company said it would appeal the decision. ``We deeply regret that our assertion was not well comprehended, and can not accept it at all,'' it said in a statement. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters Tuesday that the country's nuclear watchdog had deemed the plant safe according to the ``world's strictest'' safety standards. The government had no intention to change course on its planned nuclear restart, he said. Takahama was one of two nuclear facilities granted approval to resume operations. Sendai nuclear power plant in Kagoshima Prefecture has been granted approval to reopen by the prefecture's governor, although local residents are seeking to challenge this in court. Analyst Henry said the renewable energy sector could benefit from the Takahama decision, as the country weighed solar and hydro power as alternatives. Prior to the Fukushima disaster, about 30 % of Japan's energy was nuclear generated. CNN's Junko Ogura contributed to this report from Tokyo.
( CNN ) Every morning, Sissa Abu Dahou puts on traditional male dress, known as a jalabiya, and heads into the streets of the Egyptian city of Luxor for a day of hard work. But this man of the house is actually a woman. The grandmother of two has dressed as a man for 43 years to avoid oppression and eek out a living in the conservative Muslim state. ``Why did you do this mother ?'' her daughter asked during a recorded interview with Egyptian television network CBC. ``Your father died and I was six months pregnant with you.'' she replied. ``None of my siblings helped me. I raised you and sent you to school. Without money I could not have gotten you an education.''. A widow at just 21, Dahou was forced to fend for herself in Egypt's patriarchal south, where decades ago it was unheard of for women to earn their own living. Even in recent years, women make up barely 24 % of Egypt's workforce, according to the World Bank. ``It is considered wrong that I dressed as a man but no one can judge. Not you or anyone else. Only God can judge me,'' Dahou said, ``People talked but I said I decided to be a man so I can take care of my small daughter.''. The breadwinner worked as a brick maker for just 25 piasters, the equivalent of a few cents, until she saved up enough money to buy a shoeshine kit. She found a place for her wooden box, painted with red hearts and the Egyptian flag, alongside the all-male shoe shiners of her community. ``If it wasn't for my mother, I would have been on the streets'' Houda, her daughter, told TV host Mona al-Shazly through tears. ``Honestly I would have been in the streets. I did not find a home except with my mother. And even today my children rely on her.''. The years of sun and sand weathered and darkened Dahou's face and left her with a voice so deep and raspy she can easily be mistaken for a man. Her only child, Houda, eventually married and had two children of her own. Through the years the one-time housewife dreamed of owning her own business one day, a small street stand to sell snacks and cigarettes. After her interview on CBC television, the governor of Luxor province offered Dahou a kiosk and a cash advance. The maverick had one requirement - she would only agree to meet with the governor in male attire. ``Even if I die, I will not take it off,'' Dahou said as she pulled on the male jalabiya in front of a TV camera, ``When I had to dress in a woman's jalabiya when I went to Cairo I felt suffocated. No, I thank God. I don't want anyone to look at me or look at my daughter.''. Now the 65-year-old who earned respect as a man has gained praise as a woman. Egypt's President, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, crowned her as one of Egypt's ideal mothers in an official ceremony last month. ``If I was really a man, I would not have done this,'' Dahou told her daughter, ``I would have gotten remarried. I would have left you who knows where. You would have been treated without dignity or left homeless. Thank God I was able to protect you.''
( CNN ) You can call him.. Joker. We've seen a few teases so far, but on Friday night, director David Ayer gave us the first full look at Jared Leto as the Joker. The Clown Prince of Crime will appear in 2016's ``Suicide Squad,'' the first movie featuring the best-known comic book villain, where ( as far as we know anyway ), there is no Batman present. The Oscar winner cut his hair and shaved his face for the role, and appears to have embraced it fully. He will be the first actor to play the character on the big screen since the late Heath Ledger. ``Suicide Squad'' also stars Will Smith, Margot Robbie and a large cast of villains and anti-heroes. ( Warner Bros. Pictures and DC Entertainment -- makers of ``Suicide Squad'' -- are owned by Time Warner, as is CNN. ). The movie hits theaters August 5, 2016.
( CNN ) In case you needed a reminder that President Barack Obama isn't running for office again, he just alienated not only Republicans, who have largely resented him from day one, but the progressive base of Democratic voters. Obama has argued with the progressive potentate Elizabeth Warren, calling her ``wrong'' on trade policy. The Massachusetts senator is the same potentate to whom Hillary Clinton has been religiously prostrating. What everyone does next will be critical for the 2016 elections and the future of Democratic politics. Warren has publicly criticized so-called ``fast track'' trade authority that would allow the White House to negotiate massive, multination trade deals with little congressional oversight. The authority would pave the way for trade pacts such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is modeled on the North American Free Trade Agreement, and has killed 700,000 American jobs and drove wages down in the United States while simultaneously decimating Mexican agriculture and small businesses. Aspects of the TPP deal would provide incentives for off-shoring jobs to low-wage countries, imposing limits on government regulations around food safety and the environment, and create mechanisms for multinational corporations to challenge any domestic laws they simply don't like. In December, Warren wrote a letter signed by several other Democrats to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman raising concerns about the TPP. The letter warned that the TPP could erode safeguards that have been put in place to ``prevent future financial crises.''. ``We can not afford a trade deal that undermines the government's ability to protect the American economy,'' Warren wrote. At a town hall with MSNBC's Chris Matthews on Tuesday, President Obama said, ``I love Elizabeth. We're allies on a whole host of issues. But she's wrong on this.''. Obama added, ``When you hear folks make a lot of suggestions about how bad this trade deal is, when you dig into the facts, they are wrong.''. But ``I'm right and she's wrong'' doesn't exactly come off as a thoughtful, let alone respectful, response to the policy critiques of one of the most trusted economic justice leaders in the Democratic Party today. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton is trying to walk a fine line somewhere in the middle. Clinton has recently courted Warren's support while forcefully repeating the rhetoric of populism. But according to a report by The New York Times, Clinton's staff is at pains to suggest that Clinton has always been a populist as opposed to merely trying to now co-opt a current trend. Yet it becomes harder to paint Clinton as the ``original Elizabeth Warren'' each time she equivocates on trade policy and the TPP. In a 2012 speech as secretary of state, Clinton praised the TPP as ``the gold standard in trade agreements to open free, transparent, fair trade, the kind of environment that has the rule of law and a level playing field.''. But now, as she campaigns for president facing a Democratic electorate divided over the deal, Clinton is sounding more critical. ``Any trade deal has to produce jobs and raise wages and increase prosperity and protect our security,'' Clinton said this week. So does Clinton support the TPP deal or not ?. Campaigning in New Hampshire on Tuesday, Clinton reportedly declined to say one way or the other. That's not the behavior of a fierce populist. It's more indicative of the sort of politically calculated, ideologically centrist ``triangulation'' for which her husband was famous. Seizing on Clinton's ambiguity, her potential challenger in the Democratic primary, Martin O'Malley, released a video this week making clear that he is against the TPP. According to a poll, as of 2012 just 1 in 4 Americans believed that NAFTA had benefited U.S. workers and only 1 in 3 believed it had benefited the U.S. economy overall. Even most Republicans in this poll supported the position that the United States should either ``renegotiate'' or ``leave'' NAFTA versus ``continue to be a member.''. In other words, any political leader with even the dimmest grasp of economics let alone political pragmatism should run away from a new trade deal modeled on imitating and expanding NAFTA. While it's not surprising that Republicans are siding with big business and against working Americans in supporting the TPP, it's befuddling that President Obama supports it. The only hope now is for 2016 Democratic candidates, especially Clinton at this point, to support populism not just in rhetoric but in real policy terms and show which party is, for the most part, on the side of the people and not on the side of multinational corporations. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid minced no words in revealing his position about trade ``fast track'' authority : ``I'm not only no, I'm hell no.''. If Hillary Clinton wants to prove she's a real populist, now's her chance to be even more clear.
( CNN ) So now the real trial is underway : What does the surviving Boston Marathon bomber, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, deserve and why ? What's he likely to get and why ?. Let's start where the penalty phase starts, with the prosecution's case. Prosecutors have listed, as they must, the aggravating circumstances that make this horrific mass murderer deserve the harshest punishment. The killing was ``heinous, cruel and depraved.'' He placed a bomb in a crowd, set it to kill and maim children and adults indiscriminately -- if that's not heinous, cruel and depraved, what is ?. Cruelty classically consists of a desire to cause pain and suffering in innocent victims, or, at the opposite extreme, it reflects a cold, callous indifference. Tsarnaev displayed both. Cruelty really provides us a lens into the worst of the worst of the worst. The number of dead from the bombing ( three ) and injured ( 260 ), including dozens maimed, also elevate these murders. The victims were vulnerable -- no one more so than 8-year-old Martin Richard. For 2,500 years, we have proclaimed that all human beings are equally valuable, yet we identify certain victims as especially worthy, and those who prey on them as especially culpable. The prosecution's emphasis : The killings involved ``substantial planning and premeditation'' and a betrayal of the United States -- the very country that gave Tsarnaev shelter and citizenship. And then there's the selection of the site, the Boston Marathon, an ``iconic'' event. And then there's Tsarnaev's lack of remorse -- opening day, the prosecutor's final shot of Tsarnaev locked up, giving the security camera the finger. From his blood-scrawled justification in the boat after the bombing to this day, the message has been : Screw you, society. Tsarnaev may take the stand to beg for mercy, but only if he now feels or at least can fake remorse. And don't confuse regret with remorse. No doubt Tsarnaev regrets his present predicament, regrets the negative publicity he's brought his friends and family and most poignantly regrets running over and killing his older brother while trying to escape. But that's a far cry from genuine remorse for the victims he's killed and maimed. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was the lesser of two evils, the defense will insist over and over. Tamerlan was the source of his younger brother's malicious intent. As the prisoners inside Washington D.C.'s now defunct Lorton Central Prison once described the street code to me : No snitching, but if someone dies, then ``the dead guy did everything.''. So the defense will claim that Dzhokhar was not fully responsible because he could not be. After all, he was only 19. Biologists teach us our brains don't fully develop until we're 25. Thus, their argument goes, a 19-year-old simply can't be the worst of the worst. In 2005, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the death penalty for those younger than 18 when they killed, repeatedly quoting an article by psychologists Laurence Steinberg and Elizabeth Scott. But in the same article, these leading developmental psychologists themselves characterized it as an ``open question whether under real-world conditions the decision making of mid-adolescents is truly comparable with that of adults.'' And they were talking about 17-year-olds. To the best of my knowledge, science has not and can not establish a definitive connection between organic brain development and moral responsibility. Think about it : When a 19-year-old bravely dashes into a burning building, risking his life to save children inside, we celebrate this heroism. We do not, nor should we, dismiss this bravery as the product of an impulsive not-yet-fully-formed personality. If we can fully celebrate good character and heroic acts of our best young adults, why can't we fully condemn the cowardly viciousness of our worst ?. What outcome would I predict in the Tsarnaev case ?. Confronted by surviving victims and images of their dead loved ones, hearing offsetting pleas to ``move on,'' balancing the real suffering in the courtroom against the imagined punishment of life that awaits Tsarnaev, I expect the jury will vote 10-2 ( or 9-3 ) for death. But they must be unanimous for death ; a lopsided but divided jury would result in a life sentence. Worse, the historical record and headlines in the next day's anti-death penalty news organizations will probably proclaim : ``Jury Chooses Life for the Marathon Bomber'' -- even if overwhelmingly the people's representatives were to vote for death as the more appropriate punishment. Requiring a unanimous verdict for death gives the defense an enormous advantage -- one of many. Why ?. Because in the end, we would much prefer that 1 or 10 or 20 convicted murderers who deserve to die instead live out their lives in the relatively nonpunitive condition of prison than one person who deserves to live be wrongly killed at the hands of the people. And yet, if we really commit ourselves to having the punishment fit the crime, if we rightly reserve the death penalty for the most heinous crimes and criminals, surely the Boston Marathon bomber stands among the worst of the worst.
( CNN ) The Dark Knight returns.. again. ``The Dark Knight Returns,'' published in 1986, is widely credited for resurrecting Batman in pop culture, something we've seen referenced in everything from 1989's ``Batman'' to the ``Dark Knight'' trilogy and the upcoming ``Batman v. Superman : Dawn of Justice.''. Now popular comic book writer Frank Miller is returning to his best-known story. DC Comics ( a Time Warner company, like CNN ) announced Friday the final chapter in his ``The Dark Knight Returns'' trilogy, in the form of ``The Dark Knight III : The Master Race'' ( ``The Dark Knight Strikes Again'' was released in 2001 ). This third chapter in the grim saga will be released sometime in the fall. ``Batman remains my favorite comic book hero and a sequel to Dark Knight is going to be daunting,'' said Miller in a press release, ``but we'll do our best.''. Miller will be joined by acclaimed artist Brian Azzarello.
( CNN ) Georgia Southern University was in mourning Thursday after five nursing students were killed the day before in a multivehicle wreck near Savannah. Caitlyn Baggett, Morgan Bass, Emily Clark, Abbie Deloach and Catherine ( McKay ) Pittman -- all juniors -- were killed in the Wednesday morning crash as they were traveling to a hospital in Savannah, according to the school website. Fellow nursing students Brittney McDaniel and Megan Richards were injured as was another person, who was not identified by the Georgia State Patrol. The young women were on their way to finish their first set of clinical rotations. ``Today should have been a day of celebration for this bright group of students,'' at St. Joseph's / Candler hospital said in a Facebook posting. ``It was their last day of clinical rotations.. in their first year of nursing school.'' Clinicals include hands-on instruction at a health care facility. A post commander for the Georgia State Patrol said a tractor-trailer smashed into an eastbound line of cars that had slowed for a prior accident on Interstate 16. ``He came along from behind them and he just did not stop for those cars,'' Sgt. Chris Nease said. There were four passenger vehicles and three tractor-trailers involved in the 5:45 a.m. accident. The women who were killed were in two cars, a Toyota Corolla and a Ford Escape. One of their vehicles caught on fire, Nease said, but it will take an investigation to determine whether the women died on impact. CNN Savannah affiliate WTOC reported one witness tried to help. ``Right about the time I got here, the car was just about catching on fire,'' Cayne Monroe told the station. ``The car just burned up really quickly. And I run up there, but there was nothing anyone could do. I've never witnessed something like that in my life. It was pretty tragic.''. The state patrol said the truck driver is from Louisiana. The 55-year-old man had not been charged as of Thursday evening, Nease told CNN. ``Every one of our students contributes in no small measure to the Eagle Nation,'' university President Brooks A. Keel said in a statement. ``The loss of any student, especially in a tragic way, is particularly painful. Losing five students is almost incomprehensible.''. Georgia Southern flew flags at half-staff and counseling was offered to students. A campuswide vigil was held Thursday night. On the university's Twitter page, a tear was added to the profile logo of the eagle mascot. The school has a student body of about 20,000 and is in Statesboro, about 60 miles from Savannah. ``You could tell that they really loved what they did,'' Sherry Danello, vice president of patient care services and chief nursing officer at St. Joseph's / Candler, said on the hospital's Facebook posting. ``They didn't just go through the task, they really connected to the patients.''. Luke Bryan, a country music star and school alumnus, tweeted his condolences : ``Praying for everyone at Georgia Southern and the families who lost loved ones.''. CNN's Matthew Stucker contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It didn't seem like a fair fight. On one side were hulking football players and pro wrestlers, competing as teams of two to eat as many pounds of steak as they could, combined, in one hour. On another was a lone 124-pound mother of four. And sure enough, in the end, Sunday's contest at Big Texan Steak Ranch in Amarillo, Texas, wasn't even close. Molly Schuyler scarfed down three 72-ounce steaks, three baked potatoes, three side salads, three rolls and three shrimp cocktails -- far outpacing her heftier rivals. That's more than 13 pounds of steak, not counting the sides. And she did it all in 20 minutes, setting a record in the process. ``We've been doing this contest since 1960, and in all that time we've never had anybody come in to actually eat that many steaks at one time,'' Bobby Lee, who co-owns the Big Texan, told CNN affiliate KVII. ``So this is a first for us, and after 55 years of it, it's a big deal.''. In fairness, Schuyler isn't your typical 124-pound person. The Nebraska native, 35, is a professional on the competitive-eating circuit and once gobbled 363 chicken wings in 30 minutes. Wearing shades and a black hoodie, Schuyler beat four other teams on Sunday, including pairs of football players and pro wrestlers and two married competitive eaters. She also broke her own Big Texan record of two 72-ounce steaks and sides, set last year, when she bested previous record-holder Joey ``Jaws'' Chestnut. The landmark Big Texan restaurant offers its ``72-ounce Challenge'' daily to anyone who can eat the massive steak, plus fixings, in under an hour. Those who can't do so must pay $ 72 for the meal. Schuyler, who now lives in Sacramento, California, won $ 5,000 for her efforts. Her feat will be submitted to Guinness World Records. But mostly, she just seemed pleased to enjoy a hearty meal on the house. ``It's free, so I'm pretty happy about that,'' she told KVII. ``Otherwise it would have cost me about 300 bucks.''
( CNN ) After deliberating for more than 35 hours over parts of seven days, listening intently to the testimony of more than 130 witnesses and reviewing more than 400 pieces of evidence, the teary-eyed men and women of the jury exchanged embraces. Since late January, their work in the Massachusetts murder trial of former NFL star Aaron Hernandez had consumed their lives. It was nothing like ``Law & Order.'' The days were long and tedious. Now it was over. ``It's been an incredibly emotional toll on all of us,'' Lesa Strachan told CNN's Anderson Cooper Thursday in the first nationally televised interview with members of the jury. A day earlier, Strachan, the jury foreperson, announced the first-degree murder conviction in the 2013 shooting death of Hernandez's onetime friend Odin Lloyd. Strachan said she was struck by the viciousness of multiple gunshots. ``You shot him once but you kept going and you shot him six times. There's no need for that and there's no need to use a gun. Period.''. Before the trial, at least one juror -- Rosalie Oliver -- hadn't heard of the 25-year-old defendant who has now gone from a $ 40 million pro-football contract to a term of life without parole in a maximum-security prison. But Kelly Dorsey watches the Patriots every Sunday during the football season. She said so on her jury questionnaire. ``I knew of him as a football player, not a person,'' she said. It didn't affect her vote to convict, she said. It didn't matter that he was a football player, she said. Nor did it matter whether he actually pulled the trigger in the murder. ``To leave your friend on the ground, knowing that he's not there anymore -- he's either dead or he's going to die -- that's indifference,'' Dorsey said of Hernandez. ``He didn't need to pull the trigger.''. That word -- ``indifference'' -- was used multiple times by members of the jury. Jon Carlson said he was struck by testimony and video evidence that Hernandez and two co-defendants were sunbathing poolside hours after the slaying, drinking smoothies. Hernandez at times left his then-8-month-old daughter with the two men. That indifference ``surprised a lot of us,'' Carlson said. He stressed the fact that Hernandez played football for a living didn't influence the jury's decision. ``It doesn't matter how much money you have or how much money you make. We're all people, and we're all equal, and we all deserve the same fair trial, and that's what we wanted to make sure we gave him,'' Carlson said. Lloyd was seen June 17, 2013, around 2:30 a.m. with Hernandez and Hernandez's friends, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, in a rented silver Nissan Altima. Later that day, a jogger found his body. He had been shot six times, according to prosecutors. Wallace and Ortiz, who were also charged with murder, have pleaded not guilty and will be tried separately. What's next for Aaron Hernandez ?. Rosalie Oliver -- the juror who hadn't heard of Hernandez before the trial -- said that, for her, the first shot was enough. ``There was no need for the other five,'' she said. ``One shot for me is cruelty.''. Oliver and other jurors said they were surprised to receive calls from friends congratulating them after the verdict. ``Who won ?'' she asked ``Odin Lloyd didn't win. ( His mother ) didn't bring back her son. Did Mr. Hernandez win ? No, because he's going to serve the rest of his life in jail and he's 25 years old. The worst part for me is : How about that little girl that's never going to see her father again ?''. What prison life will be like for Aaron Hernandez. Oliver recalled making eye contact with Hernandez at one point during the months-long trial. ``He actually nodded to me one time,'' she said. ``You come in that room every day and you see this person and it's hard to come to that decision at the end because -- like three months with them -- it's almost like they're part of you. And then, all of a sudden now, you've got to make that decision to either put him away or let him go.''. The jurors declined to talk about the dynamics inside the jury room, choosing instead to keep the focus on the evidence presented during trial. They conveyed a sense of gravity about their task. ``You see, you know, `Law & Order' and all these different TV shows and it's just nothing like that at all. It's just very serious,'' Carlson said. 5 things to know about the jury.
( CNN ) Warren Weinstein, who appears to have been the only American citizen held hostage by al Qaeda, was accidentally killed in a U.S. drone strike in January. But it didn't have to be that way. A senior U.S. official familiar with the handling of the issue told CNN that the U.S. government made no serious effort to negotiate for the 73-year-old development expert's release, either directly to al Qaeda or through proxies in Pakistan. Another senior U.S. official told CNN that Weinstein's capture by al Qaeda made it hard for the United States to negotiate, even though proxies such as the Pakistani government have links to intermediaries who might have helped. A senior Pakistani official told CNN that after Weinstein was kidnapped, the Pakistani government put out feelers to members of the militant Haqqani Network and to the Pakistani Taliban, which are both allied to al Qaeda, to see if these groups might be able to initiate some kind of negotiation about Weinstein. According to the official, nothing came of those feelers. The senior Pakistani official says that during the past year Pakistani soldiers, who were part of a military offensive in the tribal area of North Waziristan near the Afghan-Pakistan border where Weinstein was believed to be being held, went door-to-door looking for the American. Nothing came of this search either. On Thursday, the U.S. government announced that Weinstein had been killed in a ``counterterrorism operation'' in January, which is how the government often describes CIA drone strikes. According to New America, which tracks drone strikes in Pakistan, CIA drone attacks happened in Shawal, North Waziristan, on January 19 in which at least four militants were killed ; also on January 15 in Tehsil Ladha, South Waziristan, in which at least five militants were killed ; and on January 4 in Datta Khel, South Waziristan, in which at least eight militants were killed. It is in one of these strikes that Weinstein was almost certainly killed. Lt. Col. Jason Amerine, a planner on the U.S. Army staff, is under investigation over a purported unauthorized disclosure to U.S. Rep. Duncan Hunter's office, which has demonstrated a strong interest in the fate of American hostages held by al Qaeda and the Taliban. A plan was developed in the Pentagon to secure the release of Weinstein, according to a staff member on Hunter's committee. That plan was to release Haji Bashir Noorzai, a prominent and influential member of the Taliban who is in prison in the States on drug trafficking charges, in exchange for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Berghdal, who was held by the Taliban until last year ; Taliban hostages Caitlin Coleman, a U.S. citizen, and her husband, Canadian Joshua Boyle ; and Dr. Shakil Afridi, who spied for the CIA in Pakistan and was being held in a Pakistani prison, as well as Weinstein. It's not clear how far this plan of action went. Amerine is invoking whistleblower protection and denies making an unauthorized disclosure. Hunter, a California Republican, released a statement Thursday, saying, ``The only government organization seriously developing options to recover Weinstein and others in the Afghanistan/Pakistan region was within the Pentagon -- led by war hero Jason Amerine.''. As an Army captain, Amerine led a small detachment of U.S. Special Forces into Afghanistan in November 2001 in the wake of the September 11 attacks on the United States. The operation was instrumental in helping to topple the Taliban and to install Hamid Karzai as the new leader of Afghanistan. Who exactly carried out Weinstein's kidnapping from his house 3 1/2 years ago in the Pakistani megacity of Lahore has until now not been clear. A senior Pakistani counterterrorism official told CNN that members of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, or IMU, kidnapped Weinstein at his Lahore home on August 13, 2011. IMU is an Uzbek terrorist group headquartered in the tribal regions of Pakistan along its border with Afghanistan. According to the Pakistani official, the leader of the Weinstein kidnapping cell was a relative of Tahir Yuldashev, the former IMU leader killed in a CIA drone strike in the Pakistani tribal regions in 2009. The initial lead that traced the Weinstein kidnapping to the IMU came from another high-profile kidnapping in Pakistan two weeks after Weinstein's abduction. Shahbaz Taseer, the son of a leading Pakistani liberal politician Salman Taseer -- who was killed by Pakistani militants eight months earlier -- was kidnapped in Lahore on August 26, 2011. At the scene of Taseer's kidnapping one of the kidnappers dropped a cell phone and SIM card that eventually led Pakistani officials to focus on the IMU group in Lahore, according to the senior Pakistani counterterrorism official. The police subsequently arrested three Uzbeks and four Pakistanis who were part of the IMU cell that had carried out the Weinstein kidnapping. Members of the IMU cell told Pakistani interrogators that after they had kidnapped Weinstein they moved him while he was tranquilized and semi-conscious among three safe houses in Lahore. IMU members then took Weinstein to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas in Pakistan, a semi-autonomous region along the border with Afghanistan where al Qaeda and other militant groups are headquartered. There Weinstein was given or, more likely, sold to al Qaeda, according to the senior Pakistani official. Who was Warren Weinstein ?. Weinstein had spent his life helping others, working in the fields of aid and development. He held a doctorate in international law and economics from Columbia University and spoke more than half a dozen languages. After his capture, the leader of al Qaeda, Ayman al-Zawahiri, demanded the end of CIA drone strikes in Pakistan and the release of terrorists held in U.S. custody in exchange for Weinstein's freedom. On September 12, 2012, Weinstein appeared in a video produced by al Qaeda's production arm in which he said that the Obama administration had shown ``no interest in my case.'' He then appealed to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu from ``one Jew to another'' to intervene. The Obama administration is in the midst of a review of its hostage policy, which has been criticized by some families whose loved ones have been taken hostage by ISIS, al Qaeda or the Taliban. The key problems these families point to are lack of communication by the U.S. government about their loved ones and a lack of coordination within the government about how best to free them. The CIA, for instance, is focused on drone strikes and counterterrorism operations, while the FBI has responsibility for retrieving American hostages. Often these goals are not in alignment -- as was clearly the case with Weinstein. The CIA could have exercised more due diligence knowing that Weinstein was almost certainly being held in North Waziristan. There are some solutions for these problems. First, families should be granted security clearances by the U.S. government for the purpose of having classified information disclosed to them only about their captive loved ones. Right now, the U.S. government won't communicate much with the families about their loved ones because the relatives don't have the requisite security clearances. Should families abuse their clearances, they would no longer receive classified information about their loved ones, which is a strong incentive not to abuse them. Second, President Barack Obama should appoint a senior-level person, perhaps working in the White House on the National Security Council, to oversee the work of the CIA, FBI, State Department and the Joint Special Operations Command, which implements hostage rescues. All these organizations have key roles to play in getting American hostages home. That person must be sufficiently senior so he or she can make all the relevant agencies play well together and ``de-conflict'' any potential issues, such as the ones that surfaced in the Weinstein case. Third, while the U.S. government position is that it will not make concessions to terrorist groups, there is nothing in American policy to prevent another government from negotiating with terrorists to secure the release of U.S. citizens, and this should be encouraged, even if there is some quid pro quo involved. This is what happened in the case of the American journalist Peter Theo Curtis, who was captured by al Qaeda's affiliate in Syria in 2012, but was released last year after the Qatari government intervened in his case. The Qataris have had longstanding ties to the militant groups in Syria, including the al Qaeda affiliate holding Curtis, and while Qatari officials have denied paying ransom to free Curtis, it's unlikely that the journalist was freed just because the members of al Qaeda holding him were suddenly feeling like good guys. Curtis' successful release could provide a ray of hope for U.S. citizen Caitlin Coleman and her husband, Canadian Joshua Boyle, who were captured by the Taliban in 2012 when they were traveling on a trip through Afghanistan. A senior American official told CNN they are being held by the Haqqani Network. The Pakistani government has contacts with the Haqqani Network, and the U.S. government should ratchet up the pressure on the Pakistani government to secure the couple's release. In captivity, Coleman, who was pregnant at the time she was taken hostage, had a child. The name of the child is unknown.
( CNN ) By some estimates, about a third of Americans use some form of alternative medicine, including homeopathic remedies because they find Western medicine inadequate. Creams such as Arnicare for pain relief or liquids such as Sidda Flower Essences for male virility are part of a $ 2.9 billion business that has seen ``explosive growth,'' according to the FDA. These drugs do not go through the same level of scrutiny as over-the-counter and prescription drugs. But now your over-the-counter homeopathic remedies might soon face stricter scrutiny from the federal government. Products such as the homeopathic cold remedies Coldese and Zicam, among others, came under fire Monday from experts who testified at a Food and Drug Administration hearing Monday. The two-day ``listening session,'' as the FDA calls it, is an opportunity for experts and members of the public to help the FDA decide how it should regulate these products. Critics say the agency is not doing enough. An analysis of hundreds of published studies from the National Health and Medical Research Council in Australia found that homeopathic medicine was no more effective than a placebo. There is no evidence that they actually work, the council claimed, and yet it is a multibillion dollar business. Homeopathy is a medical philosophy that essentially believes your body is the best weapon to fight disease. Homeopathic medicine is based on the idea that ``like cures like,'' meaning if something causes a symptom in your body, if you take a diluted form, it will boost your body's ability to fight it. Typically these remedies include a plant or a mineral in a tiny amount. Do homeopathic treatments for ADHD work ?. People who represent the industry, such as Mark Land, a member of the American Association of Homeopathic Pharmacists, argue that the current FDA system is a good one and that the products available today are of high quality and label standards are enough. Critics argued otherwise. Dr. Adriane Fugh-Berman testified that most people don't entirely know what homeopathy is and ``may assume that these products are dietary supplements or are conventional drugs'' since they are often sold on the same shelves as traditional drugs. This practice is ``innately misleading,'' said Fugh-Berman, an associate professor in the department of pharmacology and physiology at Georgetown. Most consumers, she said, don't know that the FDA doesn't ``routinely review these products for identity, purity, potency, quality or stability prior to marketing.''. Opinion : Alternative healing or quackery ?. While many people believe the drugs are safe in large part because they are highly diluted, products such as Cold-Eeze, if taken according to the recommendations on the label, would be 10 times the recommended dietary allowance ( RDA ) of zinc for adult females and eight times the recommendation for males, according to Fugh-Berman. Too much zinc can have toxic effects. More than 130 people using another homeopathic medicine with zinc, Zicam, reported to the FDA that they lost their sense of smell. The FDA issued a warning to consumers about it in 2009. There is a misconception that all homeopathic products are ``natural'' according to the FDA ``and therefore safe. Unfortunately, FDA has become aware of significant safety issues associated with homeopathic products in recent years,'' according to an email from the agency. Other issues include a 2010 FDA warning about Hyland's Teething Tablets. They also recalled the tablets that had inconsistent amounts of belladonna. Larger doses of the substance can be toxic. In 2014, the FDA warned consumers about Pleo Homeopathic drug products having penicillin or derivatives of penicillin. Another expert asking for stricter standards with homeopathic medicine, Janine Jagger with the Familial Mediterranean Fever Foundation, said that there should be stricter label standards that better explained what was actually in the homeopathic product. She believed there was a ``deceptive illusion of treatment'' when people chose these homeopathic options over pharmaceuticals that have been proven to work. A third of Americans use alternative medicine. A mother and editor of an alternative medicine magazine and website, Peggy O'Mara, testified that homeopathic medicine has helped her family over the years. As a writer and editor of health publications, she said she has seen a growing interest in this kind of medicine, and she believes it is is well-placed. She believes people have more trust that consumers do their research before purchasing the product, as she does. She wishes doctors were better versed in this kind of medicine and believes others want ``safe, effective and easily accessible'' products that are ``nontoxic'' alternatives to help people feel better. The public hearing will continue Tuesday. The FDA could make decisions about these labeling and regulation standards some time this year.
( CNN ) Criminal justice reform is rapidly becoming one of the few bipartisan issues of our time. It's about time. America has the highest incarceration rate in the world, with 5 % of the world's population and 25 % of its prisoners. Nearly 2 1/2 million Americans are in prison. Over 65 million people, or 20 % of the country, have criminal records. Most disturbingly, nearly 40 % of our country's prisoners are African-Americans, who only make up 13 % of the general population. It's time for policymakers to address this criminal justice crisis head on. We must change the dismal status quo. We must start by asking a simple question : Why are so many Americans criminals ? Look no further than Washington, which has spent the past century devising the most complicated -- and nonsensical -- criminal code known to man. The federal criminal code includes over 4,500 laws and counting, not to mention government regulations for which there are criminal penalties. The list of federal crimes is so long, so broad and so vague that you and I likely commit three felonies every day, unwittingly breaking numerous federal laws as we go about our daily business. No wonder America's prison population is out of control. Americans aren't addicted to crime ; our politicians are addicted to criminalizing things. Sadly, the criminalization of Americans also traps them in poverty. According to the Pew Charitable Trusts, incarceration leads to reduced wages ( 11 % drop ), employment ( nine weeks lost annually ), and earnings overall ( 40 % annually ). Making matters worse, over half of new prisoners are at or below the poverty line and three-quarters of former prisoners are sent back to jail within five years of their release. The deck is stacked against my generation in particular. Young adults are 10 % of the population yet comprise 29 % of the country's arrests. Young African-Americans are particularly at risk : They're 15 times more likely to be in prison than whites. No wonder 18-to-29-year-olds have the lowest level of trust of any age group that our justice system treats everyone equally. Thankfully, there is a bipartisan consensus in Washington that something needs to be done, and fast. On the left, civil rights groups and their allies in Congress have been demanding that the criminal system be fixed for years. On the right, politicians from Paul Ryan to Rand Paul are now recommending the same thing. If politicians are serious, they should consider three specific areas for reform. 1. Reduce punishment for nonviolent crimes. Politicians should consider reducing nonviolent offenses from felonies to misdemeanors, and end mandatory sentencing for nonviolent crimes. The federal government's unsuccessful war on drugs has led to unfair punishments for nonviolent drug offenders who made youthful mistakes. While some policies may have made sense in the 1980s and'90s, they now do more harm than good. Those involved in the buying and selling of small amounts of drugs shouldn't be subjected to years or decades in prison for their crimes. And more generally, judges should be free to tailor their rulings to the specific facts and details of the case -- and the person standing before them. 2. Rebuild respect between communities and police. One-size-fits-all mandates and decrees from Washington -- from drug laws to civil asset forfeiture to no-knock warrants -- create divisions between local law enforcement and the local communities they serve. Practices, policies and programs that create unnecessary distrust and unease should be eliminated. It's the same for police militarization, which has occurred in large part because Washington has supplied local agencies with weapons and tools that are inappropriate for use in local communities. Letting local communities set their own law enforcement policies will go a long way toward restoring the trust that right now seems almost nonexistent. 3. Give ex-nonviolent offenders a second chance. Too many reformed convicts return to jail because they face insurmountable barriers that keep them from living a normal life. Legislators can begin fixing this by encouraging greater record-sealing and expungement for youthful, non violent offenders, thereby giving people who made mistakes a greater chance of finding work and rejoining society. Reducing licensing barriers and restoring voting rights for those with criminal backgrounds should also be considered. This list is only a starting point, yet our elected officials could -- and should -- quickly and easily take it up. In our era of hyperpartisanship, we should focus on those few things on which Americans agree. Fixing our country's broken criminal justice system should be at the top of the list.
( CNN ) We belong to different generations and political parties. We live in different states and under different circumstances. One of us is a college student, born into a political family, while the other is a former congressman from South Carolina and father of five children. One of us served on the selection committee for the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award. The other will receive this award in recognition of the stand he took when he broke with his party and sacrificed his political career to support responsible action to combat climate change. We share an unwavering belief that the United States must lead the world on climate change and seize opportunities for unity, growth and progress. We believe that President Kennedy's courageous leadership in space exploration holds lessons that can help guide us forward. In 1962, President Kennedy, speaking at Rice University, described the space program that he had first announced when he asked the Congress to support his ambitious goal of landing a man on the moon before the end of the decade. Opening his speech, Kennedy stated simply the effect of man's scientific pursuit : ``The greater our knowledge increases, the greater our ignorance unfolds.''. This curious paradox holds true today. Our knowledge of the causes and dangers of climate change has increased even as our ignorance of its ramifications has unfolded. Many of our elected representatives persist in inaction and complacency by arguing that individual nations are powerless to solve the problem because every nation is culpable. Others choose to dispute the science, deny the evidence, and avoid the question of how to solve the problem. But climate change is only scary if we choose to sit, wait and do nothing about it. President Kennedy encountered the same dilemma : ``It is not surprising that some would have us stay where we are a little longer to rest, to wait. But.. this country of the United States was not built by those who waited and rested and wished to look behind them.''. We need not be frightened today. Climate change is a chance for all of us to add a chapter to the story of American triumph and human progress. It is a moment for this generation to display the very qualities we attribute to the American political heroes of earlier times, who left the world a better place for us. Courage of this scale will come from a people who are told that they can do great things by leaders who believe that their people are capable of great things. We believe that America will see opportunity in the danger of climate change just like we saw benefits on Earth from travel in space. Kennedy told the crowd at Rice that the pursuit of a goal that seemed impossible was valuable precisely because it would be so hard to accomplish. ``We choose to go to the moon not because it is easy but because it is hard,'' he said. Something so difficult would only be achieved through cooperation and national unity, and it would push us toward greatness. There will always be reasons for inaction. Many will argue that responsible reforms will hurt our economy as it recovers from the Great Recession. They will exploit the fears of that time to justify extracting rents from industries and fuels whose days are numbered. Progress on climate change will require courage. Some leaders who stand up to meet the challenge may fall, but they can be sure that their sacrifice will light the world with more energy, more mobility and more freedom and ensure a healthier planet. We can start by making straightforward changes in the tax code that are acceptable to both the right and the left. By adopting policies that would make it in our trading partners' interest to join us, meaningful reforms can provide solutions without making government any bigger. As Americans, we are obligated to leave the world a better place than we found it. We believe, just as President Kennedy did, that only if America leads on the most important issues of our time can we deliver on that promise. We call on our elected leaders to embrace the climate challenge before us and light a path to greatness once again.
( CNN ) Larry Johnson remembers the fear and feeling of helplessness from being on the SkyWest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing in Buffalo, New York. ``I thought we were done,'' he said Thursday, one day later. ``There was no doubt in my mind that we weren't going to land.''. Johnson was flying with his brother, his girlfriend and his 8-month-old son when he says a flight attendant came over the speaker asking for someone who was medically trained to help with a sick passenger. Minutes later, Johnson says, the attendant announced there was a pressurization problem and told passengers to prepare for the emergency landing. ``You're going to feel dizzy and woozy and lightheaded, and you're not going to be able to breathe,'' Johnson recalled the flight attendant saying. The Federal Aviation Administration on Wednesday initially reported a pressurization problem with SkyWest Flight 5622, and said it would investigate. It later issued a statement that did not reference any pressurization issues. ``It was like being trapped and you couldn't do anything. You have no control over it. Your body just felt pressured,'' Johnson said. Johnson said his girlfriend was seeing spots and that ``when I was blinking, it was really bright. I could barely see.''. According to Marissa Snow, spokeswoman for SkyWest, three passengers reported a loss of consciousness while on the flight. Fifteen passengers were examined by medical personnel at the Buffalo airport, but no one was transported to the hospital, she said. The spokeswoman said that maintenance personnel found no indication of a pressurization problem with the aircraft, an Embraer E170, and that the airline continues to investigate the cause. An official with the National Transportation Safety Board told CNN that the agency is in communication with the FAA and SkyWest to gather information on the incident to better understand what took place. Mary Cunningham was the nurse on board who attended to the first sick passenger. ``There was a woman, very lethargic, very nauseous, turning gray, just not looking good,'' Cunningham said. After administering oxygen to the woman, Cunningham, a nurse at Yale-New Haven Hospital in Connecticut, returned to her seat. Soon after, Cunningham said, she was called up again by the flight attendant after another women near the first started to lose consciousness. ``It was something that was affecting oxygen in that area,'' which was near the middle of the plane, she said. Cunningham said she had to return to her seat after feeling lightheaded. There were 84 passengers on board the plane, including nine crew members. Flight 5622 was originally scheduled to fly from Chicago to Hartford, Connecticut. The plane descended 28,000 feet in three minutes. ``It would feel like a roller coaster -- when you're coming over the top and you're going down,'' CNN aviation analyst Mary Schiavo said, describing how such a descent would feel. ``You know that these pilots knew they were in a very grave and very serious situation.''. Johnson, flying to visit his parents with their only grandchild, was glad that roller coaster ride ended safely. ``It was a shaky ride. It wasn't anything I would like to experience again,'' he said. CNN's Jean Casarez, Josh Gaynor, Dana Ford and Stephanie Gallman contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) In 2011, al Qaeda took Warren Weinstein hostage. Then, about a year later, his family paid money to his captors, said a Pakistani source who was in regular contact with the kidnappers. It did not lead to the American aid worker's release, and he was inadvertently killed in an anti-terror strike in January, the White House announced Thursday. After the transfer of funds in 2012, the captors, who never referred to themselves as ``al Qaeda,'' but instead as ``Afghans,'' began demanding prisoners be released in exchange for Weinstein, most prominently Dr. Aafia Siddiqui of Pakistan, the source said. She has been described as the ``poster girl'' for Islamic jihad and is serving an 86-year sentence in the United States. The militants also wanted the release of local militants who hailed from the Pakistani province of Waziristan, along the Afghan border, the source said. The men on the other end of the phone spoke Pashto with an accent typical for the border region. And they were professional in their dealings, said the source, who noticed a marked change after the money was paid. The people who had originally talked to the source about Weinstein vanished and were replaced by new voices on the phone. The militants also connected themselves with other terror events. After ISIS beheaded American James Foley, Weinstein's Afghan captors told the source that ``the Iraqis'' were asking for the American and that they were preparing an ``orange suit'' for him -- a reference to the suits that victims have worn when ISIS militants murdered them. When the Taliban released U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, a militant on the phone bragged to the source that he had been one of Bergdahl's kidnappers. They had said, at one point, that if they did kill Weinstein, they'd announce it in a big way, because he was too big a catch not to publicly celebrate. The captors had called the source daily since sometime in 2012, and the last time the source spoke with them, in early April, they said that Weinstein was still alive. In spite of a request for proof of life, the militants didn't give one. After that, the calls stopped. The source never had a number for the militants ; they had always been the ones who called. The source declined to comment on the amount of money transferred to the captors, leaving the disclosure to Weinstein's family. Could Weinstein have been saved ?. Weinstein's family in Maryland was initially reluctant to take their case to Congress. Weinstein's wife, Elaine, and his two daughters worried that drawing attention to their loved one's plight -- especially media attention -- would make Weinstein, a government contractor working with USAID in Pakistan, a more valuable hostage to his al Qaeda captors. But the family switched course and went to their representatives in Congress in late 2013 after a video of Weinstein -- frail and apparently in declining health -- surfaced in which he said he felt ``totally abandoned and forgotten'' by his country. Will the drone debate return ?. More than a year later, that reluctance evolved into a close bond between the Weinsteins and the Maryland delegation of lawmakers and staff who pressed Weinstein's case with the Obama administration as well as Pakistan. The congressional offices helped the family navigate the maze of government agencies working to free their loved one, according to one of those lawmakers and a Senate aide. ``We don't get choked up too often at work,'' Algene Sajery said as she held back tears. ``But this is really hard.'' Sajery is a foreign policy adviser to Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Maryland, who worked closely on the case. After the White House announced that Weinstein had been accidentally killed in a January U.S. drone strike, the aide's first call was to Weinstein's daughters. ``Myself and my colleague worked really closely with them, talked to them all the time.. they're just such good people,'' Sajery said of the family. ``There's a personal connection there.''. Cardin and his staff had tracked the Weinstein case since news of his abduction surfaced in August 2011, but when the family reached out to get help pressing their case, Cardin's staff joined forces with Rep. John Delaney, the Weinsteins' congressman, and began setting up meetings for the family. Cardin's staff set up meetings for the senator and Weinstein's family with everyone from the U.S. special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan to the Pakistani ambassador in Washington. Cardin and Sen. Barbara Mikulski, D-Maryland, wrote to President Barack Obama, calling on the U.S. to beef up efforts to secure Weinstein's release and dedicate more resources to the cause. And the staff and lawmakers helped the Weinsteins weave through the network of agencies -- from the FBI to the State Department and the White House -- working to bring Weinstein home. ``We focused on making sure that the capabilities of the government was well coordinated,'' Delaney told CNN on Thursday. ``The government is a bureaucracy, and you have to make sure that it's working.''. But for the Weinsteins and the families of other American hostages held by terror groups abroad, the government hasn't always worked well enough -- a frustration that was palpable to the staffers on Capitol Hill who worked to help them. Al Qaeda hostage Warren Weinstein killed. ``Unfortunately, the assistance we received from other elements of the U.S. Government was inconsistent and disappointing over the course of three and a half years,'' Elaine Weinstein said in a statement Thursday. ``We hope that my husband's death and the others who have faced similar tragedies in recent months will finally prompt the U.S. Government to take its responsibilities seriously and establish a coordinated and consistent approach to supporting hostages and their families.''. It's a criticism that has resurfaced as the families of American hostages were killed abroad spoke up and voiced their frustrations with what they characterized as insufficient U.S. government efforts to bring their loved ones home. Delaney was ``saddened, disappointed and outraged that our government was not able to bring Warren home,'' he said in a statement Thursday. And in an interview with CNN later in the day, he strayed away from blaming the Obama administration or people in various U.S. agencies, instead pointing the finger at a disjointed system. The Weinstein family's frustration with that system boiled over last summer when Bergdahl, the U.S. Army sergeant, was released by a Taliban-affiliated group in exchange for five Guantanamo Bay prisoners. The U.S. policy of not negotiating with terrorists appeared to have an exception. ``It's one of those things where it's both there's some hope, but at the same time it caused them some great frustration,'' Delaney recalled, saying the family asked : ``Why not Warren ?''. But as the State Department called the Bergdahl exchange a ``unique situation,'' the Weinsteins' hopes were dashed. ``That's when they asked us to really step up our efforts,'' Sajery said. ``That's when they decided to really go public.''. Delaney introduced a resolution calling on the Obama administration to use all tools necessary to bring Weinstein home and make his return -- and that of other U.S. hostages abroad -- a top priority. Mikulski, Cardin and Sens. Dick Durbin and Mark Kirk of Illinois pushed a similar resolution in the Senate. And the Weinsteins took to the airwaves, with Alisa Weinstein appearing on CNN's ``AC360'' to make a public appeal for her father's release -- and for the U.S. government to do more to secure his freedom. ``My father is just as deserving of freedom as Sgt. Bergdahl, as are all of the Americans who are being held abroad,'' she said on CNN last June. ``You can not distinguish between these hostages.. They can't just pick and choose, decide that it works to get one person out and then leave everybody else there.''. White House press secretary Josh Earnest on Thursday said that ``significant resources'' were dedicated to try to free Weinstein and that ``as painful as it is,'' the U.S policy of not negotiating with terrorists would remain in place, arguing that removing that policy could promote kidnappings abroad and put more Americans at risk. And State Department acting spokeswoman Marie Harf said many officials at the department were in touch with the Weinsteins throughout the process. While the U.S. policy of not negotiating with terrorists would remain in place, the State Department is reviewing how it works to secure the release of American hostages held by terrorists abroad, she said. The White House announced the review last fall, which Obama ordered last summer after terrorists killed or kidnapped Americans abroad. Speaking at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence on Friday, Obama reiterated that the White House will review what happened. ``We all bleed when we lose an American life,'' he said. ``We all grieve when any innocent life is taken. We don't take this work lightly.''. Obama made to sure to praise the intelligence community overall, noting that much of their accomplishments remain classified, while only their failures become public. ``The world doesn't always see your successes -- the threats you prevent, or the terrorist attacks you thwart, or the lives that you save,'' Obama said. ``It can be frustrating sometimes, but that's part of the function of our democracy. But I know what you do.''. But Delaney, the Weinsteins' congressman, is revving up to push for more reforms that will make government agencies more effective at finding and freeing American hostages held abroad. Delaney on Thursday called on the government to streamline the efforts of various agencies and countries in the region that help the U.S. find American hostages -- an effort he's been pushing in recent months. The tragedy of Weinstein's death could be just the momentum needed to spur those reforms. ``I think that every single American wants any American held hostage returned,'' Delaney said. ``There's tremendous support to do more.''. On Friday, Elaine Weinstein said in a statement that the family has ``been moved by the tremendous outpouring of support from around the world.''. ``We appreciate the sympathy and condolences we have received from those who knew the Warren we loved so much as well as those who did not,'' the statement said. ``Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of others who have been taken hostage around the world as they endure these terrible ordeals.''. CNN's Sophia Saifi reported from Islamabad, Pakistan ; Jeremy Diamond reported and wrote from Washington ; Saima Mohsin reported from Bangkok. CNN's Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A mysterious affliction has killed as many as 18 people in southwestern Nigeria, leaving health officials scrambling to determine its cause. The cases have all occurred in Nigeria's Ondo state since April 13, health officials said Sunday. Dr. Dayo Adeyanju, Ondo's state commissioner for health, said 18 people have died and five people are being treated. Those affected are between the ages of 25 and 60. The disease does not appear to be contagious, he said. Symptoms include headaches, blurred vision, loss of sight and unconsciousness, Adeyanju said. Some suspect it may be the result of locally brewed alcohol. The World Health Organization, earlier Sunday, reported at least 13 people were killed and that there were 18 total cases. Those numbers were reported by Adeyanju released somewhat different totals. Investigators sent samples of blood, urine and spinal fluid to a university in the city of Lagos for tests, which ruled out infections from viruses or bacteria, the WHO said. Doctors plan to carry out toxicological tests on one of the victims who died in a hospital, WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic said.
( CNN ) A sweat-smothered man in a wide-brimmed hat, knee-high leather boots and a khaki uniform machetes his way through lush jungle foliage. As thick tangles of vine fall beneath his blade, he pushes into a clearing, then suddenly staggers back. The fanged mouth of a primordial stone beast gapes toward him. Before him rise the crumbled ruins of an enormous portal of rock, black with age but with a colossal grandeur not yet lost -- a fine example of what archaeologists call a ``zoomorphic portal'' or, more popularly, a ``monster mouth gate.''. What was once the gateway to an ancient Mayan city, built circa 700 AD and mysteriously abandoned four centuries later, stands before him. He has found the lost city of Lagunita. Now that the planet has been mapped, circumnavigated, measured and tagged in every way imaginable, the age of explorers discovering new worlds seems a quaint memory. But there are still adventurers exploring forgotten corners of the globe, and some find astonishing things. One such explorer, part Indiana Jones, part Magellan, is Slovenian archaeologist Ivan Šprajc. The sprightly Šprajc wears the weathered face of a man who has spent much of his 60 years beneath a hot sun at excavations, or hacking his way through dense jungle. He has been the first to see ancient pyramids, 30 meters high, that he spotted in aerial photographs from his office among the Baroque Mitteleuropean cobbled streets of Ljubljana, Slovenia, some 10,000 kilometers away. But in terms of the thrill of discovery, it doesn't get any better than his encounter with Lagunita's monster portal. What does it feel like to find a lost city ? ``It's a victory,'' says Šprajc, ``especially when the efforts are long. On several occasions we've had two, three weeks of just cutting through the bush to get to some location, without knowing what we would find. When we get to the site it feels like a big victory, like we've done it. If it had been easy, then other people would have done it already.''. Since 1996, he and his team have discovered more than 80 ancient Mayan cities in the jungles of Mexico, few of which the modern world had known before. But how can an entire city, which once may have been home to tens of thousands, simply vanish ?. Šprajc explains that the region in which he has found such riches had gone unexplored because it's so inaccessible : ``It's so hard to get there. It's a biosphere, a protected natural area that has never been densely populated since the collapse of the Classical Mayans, for the past thousand years or so.''. When a primal jungle is allowed to grow rampant for centuries, it can indeed swallow entire cities. But just why so many settlements were simply abandoned, long before the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors, remains a mystery to which these long lost sites may provide an answer. ``Ninety-nine percent of settlements in the central and southern lowlands of the Yucatan peninsula were abandoned in a matter of 200 years. By 1000 AD, practically everything was abandoned. That was the situation when the Spaniards came. But not so in the northern section of the peninsula and the Guatemala highlands, where there was no rupture until the arrival of the Spaniards.''. So what happened in that enormous area that led to this mass evacuation ?. ``Nobody knows the exact sequence of events, but it was definitely a combination of droughts, climate change, ( and ) overpopulation, but other things must have come as consequences : devastating raids and wars among the Mayan states, which resembled the constantly battling ancient Greek city-states. ``In this Late Classical period, wars intensified with devastating consequences, for if one city-state was destroyed or overcome, it had a ripple effect on trade networks. It was a sort of globalized Mayan world.''. To learn more would require extensive, time-consuming surveys of each site, which is a different sort of fieldwork than Šprajc likes to practice. His team will map what appears to be the core of a settlement, but there simply isn't time or manpower to map it all, so hundreds of structures are left for others to survey and excavate. The adrenaline of the treasure hunt is what drives Šprajc, the ``Eureka'' moment when he finds the buried treasure. He is not in the least proprietary about what he discovers, preferring to let other research teams dive in to the sites he has found to slowly excavate, catalogue and analyze what he finds. '' -LSB- This extensive mapping -RSB- is not our job. We are taking the first step into an unknown area.''. Šprajc is a throwback to the great 19th century explorers -- a dying breed as the world becomes smaller and science bleaches out its mysteries. But in the heat of the jungle, science can only get you so far. Intrepid spirit, calloused palms, sweat, blood and patience are more important than gadgetry. As Šprajc likes to say, ``We can survive without computers, but not without machetes.''. Noah Charney is a professor of art history and best-selling author. He teaches a Guardian Masterclass called ``How to write about art.''
( CNN ) This time, it's official : Russia expects North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to visit Moscow next month for World War II anniversary celebrations. North Korean representatives have confirmed that Kim will be in the Russian capital for May 9 Victory Day celebrations, Russian presidential aide Yuri Ushakov said Wednesday, according to Russian state-run news agency Tass. This would mark Kim's first official foreign trip since inheriting the leadership of North Korea in late 2011. Kim will meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin as part of the May visit, Tass reported. Kim's trip has been anticipated since late December, when Russian state media reported that Moscow had extended an invitation to Pyongyang. Last month, a Russian official speaking on condition of anonymity told CNN that the invitation was accepted. But Wednesday's Tass report is the first public confirmation attached to a named official. This year's Victory Day marks the 70th anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. Russia has said it has invited more than 60 world leaders to the celebrations. Kim expected to visit Moscow as North Korea, Russia foster warmer relations. CNN's Madison Park and Alla Eshchenko contributed to this report.
Melbourne, Australia ( CNN ) A man stands on a beach in a distant land. Waves lap his ankles. He wades through the gentle dawn light, arms outstretched, his head held high. He is fully dressed ; not a tourist but a freedom fighter. A photograph of this man, beamed around the world, becomes a universal symbol of the struggle against tyranny and the sweet triumph of liberty. It is 2015. The man is Peter Greste. If you thought the man might have been an Anzac on the shores of Gallipoli, such is the power of persuasion. It's easy to lead a horse to water when, in the centenary year of the Gallipoli campaign, our nation is at saturation point with battlefield remembrance. The sum total of television programming, beer advertising, political grandstanding and opportunistic marketing suggests that the historical legacy of Australia's involvement in the first world war boils down to a simple equation : young ( white ) man plus distant beach equals sacrifice. There is nothing intrinsically wrong with military commemoration that honors the dead. Last weekend I planted Gallipoli rosemary in my backyard ; part of the proceeds go to the Avenues of Honour, a national project to preserve and restore Australia's living memorials. More objectionable is the fact that war remembrance is played like it is a zero sum game. To widen the scope of historical tribute, and also recall the words and deeds of the Australian men and women who fought against the prescribed route of militaristic sentiment, is to risk being branded disrespectful and divisive. But the unassailable fact is that the first world war ripped Australia asunder. Even at the time, the Great War itself was divisive, a historical reality belied by today's bland, blanket coverage of ``the Anzac spirit''. Australia's participation in the war was contested from the outset. On August 11, 1914, veteran political campaigner Vida Goldstein wrote in her Woman Voter newspaper : ``It is a fearful reflection on 2,000 years of Christianity that men have rushed into war before using every combined effort to prevent this appalling conflict.''. As she had done 20 years earlier in mobilizing forces around the issue of female suffrage, Goldstein rallied her own army of foot soldiers with fighting words. ``The time has come for women to show that they, as givers of life, refuse to give their sons as material for slaughter.''. Australian and New Zealand women had a unique advantage in shaping public debate : the vote. ``The enfranchised women of Australia are political units in the British Empire,'' Goldstein argued, ``and they ought to lead the world in sane methods of dealing with these conflicts.''. Goldstein's early entreaties failed to bite with the general populace. Under the newly legislated War Precautions Act, the Woman Voter suffered censorship, leading Goldstein and her Women's Peace Army to fight on multiple fronts : ``We are fighting for Civil Liberty and against Military Despotism.'' Around the nation, trade unionists opposed to ``the capitalist war'' joined the movement. Australia had the only entirely voluntary military service among the Allied forces ; less than 40 % of eligible men signed up to fight ``for King and Country.'' As the carnage at Gallipoli brought home the realities of war, recruitment fell and peace activism became more widespread. General strikes halted industry, as workers reacted to the food shortages, unemployment and rising poverty that threatened the social accord of ``the Working Man's Paradise.''. With enlistments falling away in 1916, Prime Minister Billy Hughes pushed for conscription and pushed through the Unlawful Associations Act. Groups that voiced opposition to the war, like the International Workers of the World, were banned and dissidents were jailed for publishing material ``likely to cause disaffection or alarm''. When waterfront workers and coal miners went on strike, the War Precautions Act was invoked to send them back to work. In September 1916, the Sydney Twelve were arrested and tried for treason. ``Fifteen years for 15 words'' was how one of the prisoners described his crime and punishment. The conscription referendums of October 28, 1916, and December 20, 1917, became a massive rallying point for people who opposed the war -- or the federal government's domestic policies. There were diverse reasons for that opposition, including the anti-British sentiments of Irish Catholic Australians. In Melbourne, the meeting place for such public debate was Yarra Bank, a pocket of land nestled between what today is Birrarung Marr and the Rod Laver Arena. Anti-conscription demonstrations saw up to 100,000 people gather on the dusty banks of dirty brown Yarra River. Most protest meetings were peaceful, but one became infamously violent. ``Riotous scenes at Yarra Bank'', headlines around the nation proclaimed, when a demonstration organized by the Women's Peace Army in the week before the 1916 referendum turned nasty and returned servicemen began to attack female speakers. Both conscription referendums ultimately failed. The Australian Dictionary of Biography contains profiles of 174 anti-conscriptionists, many of whom went to jail, including Vida Goldstein's compatriots Adela Pankhurst and Jennie Baines. Baines was imprisoned for refusing to pay the fine she was issued for flying a red flag at Yarra Bank in 1918. She is reputedly the first Australian prisoner to go on a hunger strike. Other protesters were deported. As historian Janet Butler reminds us : ``It does take a special kind of bravery to stand against the tide.''. The enduring legacies of the first world war emanate beyond the battlefields of Gallipoli, manifested not only in the ``shattered Anzacs'' whose families bore the burden of care, but also in the class and sectarian divisions that shaped Australia's social and political relations in the 20th century. Lest we also forget that the democratic freedoms we hold dear today -- freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of speech -- were won in battles fought on home soil by courageous women and men who sacrificed much, but are still accorded little recognition. Perhaps, by the 125th anniversary of the Gallipoli campaign, when we again celebrate our national liberation narratives, we will come to associate riverbanks, as well as beaches, with the potent ebb and flow of freedom. Copyright 2015 The Conversation. Some rights reserved.
( CNN ) Giovanni Lo Porto put himself in harm's way to help, heading to Pakistan to work on a much needed reconstruction project following deadly flooding there. His work and his life, as he knew it then, came to a halt on January 19, 2012. That's when, according to Italy's state-run ANSA news agency, four armed men burst into the building where Lo Porto lived and abducted him along with colleague Bernd Muehlenbeck. Two years later, Lo Porto was dead -- killed accidentally by a U.S. drone strike, according to American authorities. The native of the Sicilian city of Palermo died along with a fellow al Qaeda hostage, American Warren Weinstein. That same counterterrorism operation in a border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan killed at least one al Qaeda leader, Ahmed Farouq, who was also a U.S. citizen. His family members, including his four brothers, called him Giancarlo. Lo Porto grew up in Sicily and then studied at London Metropolitan University, getting his undergraduate degree there in Peace and Conflict Studies in 2010, according to the school. A professor there remembers him as ``passionate, friendly ( and ) open-minded,'' according to an ANSA report. And the university, in a statement, described him as ``a popular student who was committed to helping others.''. ``We are tremendously proud of him and the humanitarian work he did,'' the school said. At the time he was taken captive, Lo Porto worked with the German aid organization Welthungerlife, a 53-year-old group dedicated to fighting hunger and poverty worldwide. Such work means going to places where the need is most -- places like Multan in Pakistan. That community was one of many in Pakistan devastated by major flooding in 2010, which covered about one-fifth of the country and left more than 1,500 people dead. These conditions are all too common in the South Asian nation, as evidenced by flooding one year later that forced upwards of 660,000 into refugee camps and killed more than 430 people, about a quarter of whom were children. ``He told me, `I'm pleased to have returned to Asia and Pakistan, I love the people, culture and food in this part of the world,''' said the London Metropolitan University professor. Specifically, Lo Porto was a project manager with Welthungerlife's clean water and sanitation program, working with 8 to 10 fellow international staffers and 100 to 200 locals starting in October 2011, according to Simone Pott, a spokeswoman for the aid group. Pott described Lo Porto as a lively, very positive man who made friends all over the world. Some of those friends in Italy, England and beyond pressed for Lo Porto's release after he was taken captive, urging Italy's government and newspaper editors to get his story out, ANSA reported. The same story said that al Qaeda ( after first claiming he was being held ) denied abducting Lo Porto, as did the Pakistani Taliban. Muehlenbeck, a German national, was freed last October, at which time he said that he and his colleague had been separated, according to ANSA. But Lo Porto never got the chance to savor freedom again, like his German counterpart. Italian Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni said his country's government ``carried out every effort possible to trace and try to return Giovanni to his loved ones.''. ``Unfortunately, the conclusion is now different ( than we wanted ) because of the tragic and fatal mistake of our American allies, which has been recognized by President Obama,'' Gentiloni said. ``The responsibility of his death and ( that ) of Warren Weinstein.. is that of the terrorists.''. On Thursday, after the U.S. government reported Lo Porto's death, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi expressed his ``deepest sorrow for the death of an Italian who dedicated his life to the service of others.''. Lo Porto's death left those at his former charity Welthungerlife speechless and confused, Pott said. And then there are his family members like his mother, who ANSA reports became ``another person'' after her son's kidnapping. ``Her only hope was to embrace Giovanni,'' a neighbor said. CNN's Hadia Messia contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will get two extra weeks to form a government, Israel's President said in a news release Monday. Netanyahu made the request at President Reuven Rivlin's Jerusalem home Monday. ``We have made progress and are on the way to forming a government,'' Netanyahu told Rivlin, according to a statement. ``However, I require additional time in order for the government to be stable and so that we might reach agreement on important issues that will aid us in meeting the challenges facing the State of Israel.''. Netanyahu must form his government in less than 42 days, according to Israeli law. ``I wish you success in your work,'' Rivlin told the Prime Minister, according to a statement. ``The entire people of Israel hope that a government will be established ; indeed, a transition government has not received the confidence of the Knesset and is viewed by the public as needing to be dealt with. I hope that in the coming days you will succeed in forming a stable government for the State of Israel.''. Last month, Netanyahu's Likud Party snared 30 of the 120 seats in the Knesset, Israel's parliament, giving its leaders the first chance at forming a coalition government. The Zionist Union came in second, with 24 seats.
( CNN ) She predicted events that unfolded in the Middle East well before they happened. And her book on Iraq became required reading for many military leaders trying to understand the country. Veteran journalist and author Sandra Mackey died Sunday, her son, Colin Mackey, said. She was 77. Her extensive career began in anonymity. She was an undercover reporter working for U.S. newspapers from Saudi Arabia as her husband, Dr. Dan Mackey, worked in a Riyadh hospital. For four years, she hid her writing from the authorities and smuggled her stories out of the country to get around Saudi Arabia's prohibition on foreign journalists. Her work appeared under the pseudonym Michael Collins. As she chronicled what was happening around her, Mackey's distinctive voice began to emerge. Over the years, a stream of books followed. ``The Saudis : Inside the Desert Kingdom'' offered ``a rare first-hand glimpse into the hidden realm of Saudi social and public life,'' The New York Times wrote. Her 1992 book ``Passion and Politics : The Turbulent World of the Arabs'' helped bridge gaps in understanding between Arabs and Americans, critics wrote. Mackey wrote for the people she knew, in a layman's language that was rooted in her training as a high school history teacher. ``Scholars may be put off by Mackey's occasionally florid, bombastic language, but her work is a sound analysis and a sympathetic yet balanced effort to explain Arab perspectives to Americans,'' Elizabeth R. Hayford wrote in Library Journal. After earning a history degree from the University of Central Oklahoma, Mackey attended the University of Virginia to study international relations. She graduated in the first class of women admitted to the graduate program. For her book on Iran, Mackey was three times able to win permission to travel through the country unaccompanied, allowing her to paint an intimate portrait of a country going through extraordinary change. Her 2002 book ``The Reckoning -- Iraq and the Legacy of Saddam Hussein'' portended some of the outcomes of the war in Iraq -- but also drew some sharp criticism. ``If war prevails, we shall beget a greater disorder in the Persian Gulf,'' Mackey wrote in the book. ``We will be sucked into the resentments of the Arab world, the hostilities of the Iraqis, and the challenge of nation building in what has become an intensely tribal society at the core of American vital interests in the oil-rich Persian Gulf.''. Fouad Ajami, the late Hoover Institute fellow who was also a frequent guest on CNN, took issue with the book. ``The crowds in Baghdad and Basra ( like the crowds in Kabul that greeted their liberators with kites and music ) may yet embarrass Mackey and the countless naive people who see things her way,'' Ajami wrote for The New York Times' Sunday Book Review cover story in 2002. Mackey had an Oklahoma twang, the slightly nasal kind that she was proud of, but that belied her worldly understanding. She would use it to full effect when she wanted to put people at ease. Mackey was a frequent commentator on CNN during the Gulf War in the 1990s. She also appeared on countless other outlets, including Bill Maher's ``Politically Incorrect,'' to explain in layman's terms what was happening in the region. Her book on Iraq was published one year before the U.S.-led invasion of the country in 2003. The book forewarned of the consequences of such action. ``In a perfect world, Shia, Sunni, and Kurd, followed by a company of other minorities, would walk into the post-Hussein Iraq as a liberated people united by common suffering,'' Mackey wrote. ``But as all those who plot the way of nations are so acutely aware, the world is not perfect.''. She said those calling for an invasion of Iraq ``can not ignore the threats to American security that could come with Hussein's demise.''. ``With American troops on the ground and no governing authority capable of taking charge, the United States faces the real possibility of a secular version of militant Islam,'' Mackey said.''.. Thus, American military forces rotate in and out, U.S. taxpayer money finances the occupation, and Iraqi hostility to a Western presence increases. There is no exit strategy except retreat.''. In 2004 the U.S. military actually flew Mackey to Iraq to teach commanders from the Army's 1st Infantry Division while the war was still raging. Her book on Iraq became required reading for many military officers. ``I am literally a little old lady in tennis shoes,'' she used to joke about her ability to gain the confidence of countless sources. ``What's the harm in talking to me ?''
( CNN ) Saturday's deadly earthquake in Nepal was the ``big one'' experts were waiting for based on the region's history. Earthquakes are a fact of life in the South Asian country, with tremors of magnitude 4 or 5 occurring several times each year, geologist and science journalist Kate Ravilious said. With the last major earthquake in 1934, the concern was not if, but when the next ``great'' earthquake would hit, said Ravilious, author of the 2014 article, ``Kathmandu's earthquake nightmare.''. In a landlocked country like Nepal, where infrastructure is fragile to begin with, the consequences of such an earthquake had the potential to be ``much more serious,'' Ravilious told CNN. Those fears were realized when a magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from the national capital of Kathmandu rocked Nepal, toppling homes, historic buildings and leaving more 1,400 dead, authorities said. ``This event, while large and tragic, is not unusual for that region of the world as the whole mountain range stretching from Tibet almost to Caspian Sea is an area of major collision between continental plates,'' said geological engineer Nicholas Sitar with the University of California, Berkeley's Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering. What's different this time from 1934 is the size and density of Kathmandu, which suffered the brunt of damage in both earthquakes. ``The population has exploded in several decades,'' U.S. Geological Survey spokesman Gavin Hayes told CNN. ``When you get a vast population in the kind of building infrastructure that isn't equipped to handle shaking of an earthquake this size, that's when you see the scale of disaster we're seeing now.''. The big unknown is what happens next, now that the initial rumbles of the quake have passed, Ravilious said. How will emergency response teams enter the landlocked country, whose single international airport is closed ? How will transports carrying aid move through the country if roads are destroyed ? If and when landslides start, how will mountainside villages in the Himalayan range fare ?. And, will it all be resolved before monsoon season starts ?. ``The worry now is to get Nepal up and running again on feet,'' Ravilious said. ``The monsoons in a couple of months could make things worse if we don't sort things out before then.''. An earthquake is the ground shaking caused by a sudden slip on a fault, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Stresses in the earth's outer layer push the sides of the fault together, releasing energy in waves that travel through the earth's crust and cause the shaking felt during an earthquake. Nepal is located on a major plate boundary between India and Eurasia, where collisions have been in progress for about 50 million years. Those collisions are responsible for the construction of the Himalayas, which has the tallest and some of the fastest growing mountains in the world, said Chris Goldfinger, director of Oregon State University's Active Tectonics and Seafloor Mapping Laboratory. India is moving northward into Eurasia at a rate of about 45 millimeters a year, with earthquakes of a magnitude from 8 to 9 occurring on average in the Himalaya every 500 to 1,000 years, said Marin K. Clark, associate professor of Geological Sciences with the University of Michigan's Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences. The last major earthquake to affect this part of the Himalayas was in the 1500s, and Kathmandu was badly damaged in an earthquake that occurred farther east of Saturday's quake in 1934. A major concern for this earthquake is damage from landslides generated by the strong shaking, Clark said. The entire area that experienced shaking was in steep, mountainous topography where landsliding is a significant hazard. Clark compared the circumstances to the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan Province, China. The magnitude-7.9 earthquake generated more 200,000 landslides, many of which blocked roads, slowing response and recovery efforts. The landslides also blocked river valleys, which created significant flood hazard. ``We might anticipate a similar situation for Nepal.''
( CNN ) The FBI is investigating a possible ISIS-inspired terrorist threat in the United States, law enforcement officials said Saturday. The investigation originated from intercepted chatter and other intelligence information that led officials to believe a possible plot could be in the works, the officials said. No arrests have been made. It's not clear whether the threat is real or aspirational. The exact nature of the threat couldn't be learned. One official said it focused on parts of California where officials stepped up security, a U.S. official said. The Transportation Security Administration alerted local law enforcement agencies that are responsible for external security around airports, but officials said the possible threat is not necessarily aviation-related. Some cities around the United States have increased their security as a precaution. A Department of Homeland Security spokesperson declined Saturday to talk about specifics, but spoke about security measures in general. ``Over the last few months, we have made a number of security adjustments, including enhanced screening at select overseas airports and increasing random searches of passengers and carry-on luggage on flights inbound to the U.S., reflecting an evolving threat picture,'' the spokesman said. He said the DHS added layers of security to the Electronic System for Travel Authorization. ETSA is an online application system to screen travelers before they are allow to board an airplane or ship bound for the United States. In February, a more visible law enforcement presence was put in place at federal facilities, he said. ``The department has conducted significant outreach efforts.. with state and local law enforcement partners regarding these trends and engaging in a series of meetings and events with local community leaders across the country to counter violent extremism,'' he said.
Islamabad, Pakistan ( CNN ) Her second floor cafe on a dusty industrial road was painted with dashes of psychedelic colors. And Sabeen Mahmud surrounded herself there with books, people, and discussions on technology, human rights and women's entrepreneurship. Introducing others to Jimi Hendrix, street art, and talking politics was not supposed to get her killed. But in Pakistan, free speech is dangerous, and Mahmud's exuberant exercise of it made her stick out nationwide. Two gunman shot her dead at point-blank range late Friday after she locked up The Second Floor cafe in Karachi for the night, police said. Mahmud died from five bullet wounds. The gunmen also shot her mother. She is in a hospital but is expected to be released on time for her daughter's funeral. Mahmud's killing broke hearts beating for non-violence and progressive values across the country. She freely said what she thought in a place where many people are too afraid to and by doing so spoke for many more people than just herself. She had become a Pakistani figurehead for humanism, love and tolerance. ``She took that torch into the dark forest and so many people followed. She really, truly was a success story of the heart,'' said close friend and BBC journalist Ziad Zafar. No one has claimed responsibility for her shooting, and police have not named any motive. But Mahmud had just finished leading a discussion group on a topic that many want silenced, when the shots fell. In the province of Baluchistan, where separatists have fought a virulent insurgency for years, people have been disappearing regularly. There have been steady allegations of mass abduction. The Lahore University of Management Sciences planned to host the discussion on the topic, with human rights activist Mama Qadeer Baloch, but authorities shut it down. Mahmud would not hear of it not going on. ``Despite the plurality of opinion, very little space seems to be given to the discussion in Pakistani mainstream media or academia ; the debate seems to be shut down before it can even begin,'' she posted on Facebook. ``What is the reality ? Has the media been silenced on Balochistan ? What makes it dangerous for us to talk about Pakistan's largest province at one of our most celebrated universities ?''. She invited the discussion to The Second Floor, also known by the shorthand T2F. She said she knew it was a potentially dangerous move, and she had received death threats in the past when she handled the topic before. ``She was the bravest woman in the world, she really was, she was a brave heart ; my God, she was a brave, brave girl,'' Zafar said. Even in its secluded, humble location, T2F was a magnet to those seeking secular wisdom. They found it in a homey setting, musingly decorated like a small town college bookstore. The walls outside its entrance are sprayed with socially critical graffiti -- dusky red hearts float across gray walls. Mahmud waited to greet visitors, many of them young Pakistanis seeking freedom of thought, with a hug, a mug and encouragement for Pakistan's future. ``She hoped the same thing we all hoped for, a place that is fair with liberty and justice for all,'' Zafar said. Grief over her death and gratefulness for her work poured out on social media and via email. ``Thanks for giving us the room to breathe when fog pressed heavy on our shoulders. It's only been a few hours, Sabeen, and the city is already gasping for air,'' a group of illustrators called From Karachi with Love wrote. An artist drew Mahmud puttering off on a Vespa scooter wearing pants, a blouse and sandals. Her tightly coiffed short hair and angular glasses framed her bright-eyed features. Missing was a head scarf. On a wall in T2F is a spray painted Technicolor image of Marilyn Monroe from ``the Seven Year Itch,'' her white dress replaced by a traditional outfit of mustard, ocher and green. But it still flew up over her hips, revealing her alabaster legs, a daringly sexy and satirical image. The artistic expression sticks out and triggers passions, like many things Mahmud said and did.
( CNN ) You'll see him in your McDreams. On Thursday night's ``Grey's Anatomy,'' Dr. Derek Shepherd -- the hunky character played by Patrick Dempsey -- died. He wasn't shot down over the Sea of Japan, nor did a helicopter fall on his head. Instead, he died following a car crash -- after helping victims of another accident. ``Derek Shepherd is and will always be an incredibly important character -- for Meredith ( Grey ), for me and for the fans,'' show creator Shonda Rhimes said in a statement, according to The Hollywood Reporter. ``I absolutely never imagined saying goodbye to our `McDreamy.' Patrick Dempsey's performance shaped Derek in a way that I know we both hope became a meaningful example -- happy, sad, romantic, painful and always true -- of what young women should demand from modern love. His loss will be felt by all.''. Intriguingly, Dempsey still has a year left on his contract. His character's death leaves his TV wife, Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ), as the show's mainstay as it concludes its 11th season in May. ``It's been a remarkable ride,'' Dempsey told TVLine. ``The worldwide impact has been extraordinary. It is incredible how devoted and passionate the fans are, and I will forever be grateful and humbled by the experience.''. ``Grey's'' fans are still in shock. People magazine ran an obituary for the character. #McDreamyForever was a trending hashtag on Twitter. Tweets from ``Grey's Anatomy's'' official account were filled with emoji of crying faces and broken hearts, as well as tearful images from the show. Some chose to remember the good times, but for others, there was a big sense of betrayal. But the show will very much continue -- not only does it have a few weeks before the 11th season is over, Pompeo is also signed through season 12. The theme of this season, Rhimes had said, was Grey's ability to stand on her own. Now without her husband -- who was already devoting his life to separate concerns as a presidential aide -- she'll truly have to do so. ``Grey's Anatomy,'' though not the powerhouse it was when it premiered in 2005, still does well in the ratings. For the week ending April 19, the most recent available, it was 20th in overall viewers and 12th among the desirable adults 18-49 demographic. And Dempsey, who also races cars, isn't going anywhere. He has a development deal with ABC Studios, ``Grey's'' producers.
( CNN ) We want our killers to be kind. To walk into court and show remorse, tell us that they are really nice people who only did it because they feared for their lives, or they were temporarily insane. Even though those things may not be true, too often they are accepted as legitimate excuses for murder. Well, Aaron Hernandez, the former New England Patriots tight end and now convicted murderer, made none of those excuses. He walked into court with an air of bravado, his head held high like the $ 40 million, NFL superstar he was just a couple of years ago. Several times he was even caught winking at his fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, during the trial. And we didn't like his swagger. Hernandez didn't offer a plausible alibi. He didn't look ashamed or remorseful. He never wept. His own attorney, James Sultan, admitted that Hernandez ``witnessed'' the killing of Odin Lloyd, ``committed by somebody he knew,'' but said his client did not commit the crime. Even before the guilty verdict came down Wednesday, for many -- at least those covering the trial -- audacity seemed to be the defendant's biggest crime. ``The Arrogance of Aaron Hernandez,'' a New Yorker headline accused. I don't get it. What does it matter that Hernandez was arrogant in court, or walked with too much swagger, or even smiled at his girl ? Like it or not, that is who he is. The evidence is what matters. And for once, this time it appears the jury carefully considered the damning mountain of circumstantial evidence against this defendant and came to the right decision : guilty of first-degree murder in the 2013 slaying of Odin Lloyd. Hernandez, 25, was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole. He was also found guilty of unlawful possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition. It was the right decision. Still, it's hard not to feel sadness over such a senseless waste of life for both Lloyd and now Hernandez, who were once friends. Football was the best thing Hernandez ever had, especially after he father died suddenly after a routine hernia surgery in 2006. Hernandez was 16. After that his life got complicated. At 17, Hernandez went off to the University of Florida and seemed headed for greatness. There he won the John Mackey Award as the nation's best tight end and led the team in receiving during its 2009 Bowl Championship Series win. But off the field, his life was to beginning to unravel. Trouble started : bar fights, reports of marijuana use and failed drug tests. He was even questioned in relation to a shooting after a fight at a Gainesville, Florida, nightclub. By the time he was drafted in 2010 by the New England Patriots, Hernandez had already been labeled a ``troubled player.''. But neither the Patriots nor the NFL has anything to be ashamed of in how they handled the Hernandez case. They did everything right this time. Hours after Hernandez was charged with murder, he was let go from the team. And his coaches didn't spend any time trying to convince the public that their star tight end was a decent, family-loving guy, as the league has done too many times in the past when its players got in trouble. This time justice worked. There's no reason to second-guess what went wrong, to ask ``How could a star NFLer be a murderer ?'' The NFL for the most part does a great job vetting its players, and certainly Hernandez is an anomaly in the league, where despite the ugly headlines, the overwhelming majority of players are upstanding, law-abiding citizens. And Patriots bashers ( me included ) would be mistaken to try to find fault with the team for drafting Hernandez despite his troubled past. No one really knows what evil lurks in the hearts of others, even those closest to us. Not the mothers whose sons go off and commit schoolyard killing sprees, or wives whose husbands gun down innocent people, and certainly not employers who are mostly concerned about performance on the job. There was no way to predict Hernandez would end up a murderer. He was a guy who had all the talent and opportunity in the world, but he still went wrong. Hernandez himself may have explained it best as he was being taken out of the courtroom :. According to a law enforcement source close to the case, Hernandez told officers escorting him,'' `Hey man, I'm going to miss you guys.. I don't need any luck any more.' He gave you the impression, `It's kinda like no big deal.. It is what it is.'''
Istanbul, Turkey ( CNN ) Sitting on a sunny bench in Istanbul's Gezi Park, Fadime Gurgen dismisses the controversy surrounding the 100th anniversary Friday of the massacre of Armenians under the Ottoman Empire with a wave of her hand. Gurgen, a 55-year-old cleaner, says her family has had close friendships with Armenians going back generations. ``There is no such thing as genocide,'' she says. ``Other people are trying to create hostility between us.''. Most Turks agree with Gurgen. Ninety-one percent of Turks do not believe that the events of 1915 -- when, according to Armenians, 1.5 million ethnic Armenians were systematically killed in the final years of the Ottoman Empire -- were genocide, according to a recent poll. It's a sentiment shared by the Turkish government, which denies that a genocide took place, maintaining that hundreds of thousands of Turkish Muslims and Armenian Christians died in intercommunal violence around the bloody battlefields of World War I. Turkey also disputes Armenia's count of the numbers killed, putting it at 300,000. It's a heavily disputed position -- the killings are widely viewed by scholars as genocide and the Armenian government and diaspora are lobbying for wider recognition in the international community. Armenian Prime Minister Hovik Abrahamyan said Friday in statement that Turkey's Ottoman rulers had planned and carried out a ``monstrous crime'' in the years of World War I and called on more countries to recognize and condemn the genocide. Many Armenians living in Turkey still feel treated as second-class citizens. However many have hope that Turkey's younger generation is more willing to accept that a genocide occurred than their parents. ``Students are much, much more liberal,'' says Diana Van, whose grandparents escaped the mass killings. Van is a member of the delegation for the Armenian Genocide commemoration and is writing her Masters thesis on the issue at Ankara University. ``They have access to alternative information written in English, which is not taught in school ( in Turkey ). With more access to books, to alternative information, and with a larger democratization process, Turkey will be able to face its history.''. A century after her Armenian ancestors escaped death in Eastern Turkey, Van says she is frustrated that Turkey is unwilling to accept what happened. ``Your identity is denied by Turkey,'' she says. ``They do not want to face this past. In Turkey, the word Armenian is still used as a curse. Whenever you want to hurt somebody, you say, `you are like an Armenian.'''. Van says an admission of genocide by Turkey would largely be symbolic. While her grandparents lost their land, she has returned to their villages and she recognizes that trying to reclaim it would be impossible. ``I do not believe that this is going to happen,'' she says of the territorial claims made by many Armenians. ``One hundred years have passed. I went to my ancestors' land, and I saw those Armenian lands full of Kurdish people, who have five to 16 children per family, and I saw that it's not Anatolia. It's not my homeland that I had in my imagination.''. A growing number of scholars and world leaders believe that what happened should be called genocide. Germany looks set to join the European Parliament, France, Austria, Canada and some 20 other countries in labeling the atrocity a ``genocide.''. Two weeks ago the Pope referred to mass killings as ``the first genocide of the 20th century'' -- a move that infuriated Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who called the claim ``nonsense'' and recalled his ambassador to the Vatican. Some notable countries do not recognize the killings as genocide, including the UK and Israel and earlier this week U.S. President Barack Obama, wary of damaging relations with Turkey amid growing unrest in the Middle East, did not use the word genocide. There are several reasons why Turkey maintains its position on the issue. Turks say that to most people there the term ``genocide'' is associated with Nazis -- not the beloved founders of modern Turkey. Last year, the Turkish government expressed condolences to Armenians, and accepted that hundreds of thousands of their ancestors died as they were marched out of cities and towns in Central and Eastern Anatolia in the waning years of the Ottoman Empire. But the government called it a ``necessary deportation'' during the messy and violent period of transition leading up to World War I -- when many Armenian radicals were threatening to side with Russia. Turkey says that there was never a deliberate, ethnically-driven effort to exterminate the Armenian population. ``It was a wartime precaution, like the U.S. relocated the Japanese population during World War II,'' says Dr. Kamer Kasim, Dean of Abant Izzet Baysal University. Kasim dismisses the drive for the ``genocide'' label as little more than a propaganda campaign being waged by the Armenian diaspora. Politics and timing is another issue. At a time when President Erdogan is in full campaign mode ahead of upcoming parliamentary elections, he is attempting to assuage concerns about unemployment and slowed growth by drumming up nationalist fervor with promises of a ``New Turkey'' akin to the glory days of the Ottoman Empire. It's hardly the time to label the country's founders as murderers. That wouldn't play well with Turks, many of whom have gone through years of schooling that instilled in them a fierce pride in their past. In the same way that American schools often whitewashed the history of U.S. settlers and their relations with Native Americans, Turkish schools have long taken an airbrush to the ``Young Turks.'' The movement, which began in 1908, was comprised of the army officers who were in power as the country transitioned from the hands of spoiled sultans to Mustafa Kemal Atatürk -- the much-adored leader who came to power in 1923 and is credited with founding the modern Turkish state. The taboo surrounding the use of the word genocide began to crack about a decade ago when two of Turkey's best-selling international authors, Orhan Pamuk and Elif Safak, joined other intellectuals in raising the issue of whether the country's forefathers had committed genocide. Pamuk and Safak were met with crushing resistance. They were harangued in the court of public opinion, and tried in real-life court on charges of ``insulting Turkishness.'' Since 2003, Turkish schools have been forbidden from using the term genocide. Calling the events of 1915 a genocide would undermine the very narratives the Turks hold most dear, says Burcu Gultekin Punsmann, a senior analyst at Ankara Policy Center who has studied Turkish-Armenian relations for a decade. She says the country simply isn't ready to dismantle the foundation it was built on, or stain the legacy of its founders. ``Turkey is still too young and too insecure to rewrite its history and question the events unfolding at the establishment of the republic,'' Punsmann says. But in a statement issued to mark the anniversary of the killings, President Erdogan urged dialogue, saying''.. As descendants of two ancient peoples who a hundred years ago shared the same destiny whether in joy or in sorrow, our common responsibility, and calling, today is to heal century old wounds and re-establish our human ties once again. Turkey will not remain indifferent to this responsibility and will continue to do its utmost for friendship and peace.''. But there are other issues, including fears that an official recognition of genocide could unleash a flood of lawsuits against the Turkish government. In 2006, descendants of exiled Armenians filed suit in a U.S. court against two German banks for restitution of assets, based on evidence that Ottoman ministries required that seized Armenian assets be turned over to the government and transferred to banks in Germany. One 97-year-old Armenian woman living in the U.S. claims to have land deeds proving that her parents owned land that now houses an airport. Her case is winding its way through the Turkish court system, but her lawyer, Ali Elbeyoglu, says the genocide debate has no effect : ``We have deeds, so we are following the law and politics don't matter.''. Others say that the genocide is distracting the country from more pressing issues between Turkey and Armenia, like the closed border between the two hostile neighbors. Aybars Gorgulu, a foreign policy expert at TESEV, one of Turkey's leading think tanks, argues that it is Armenia, not Turkey, which suffers most from the tensions surrounding the issue. And he says it isn't in Armenia's best interest to push hard for a recognition of genocide that he doesn't believe will ever come. ``There's no diplomatic relations between the countries, and that plays into why Turks think there's a crazy diaspora obsessed with genocide, but that's not true,'' Gorgulu says. ``The best thing for Armenia would be to enter into dialogue with Turkey, normalize relations, and open the border.''. Meanwhile, the publicity surrounding the anniversary on Friday has prompted debate amongst Turks of all ages. On Sunday there will be a conference at Bogazici University on the atrocity -- one of few in Turkey that openly uses the term genocide. Nisan Gul Goker, a 21-year-old art management student with bright pink lipstick, is one of the few Turks who believes that her country should change course. ``They keep referring to this as an `Armenian incident' in quotations and can't call it genocide,'' she says, boarding the metro to her classes at Aydin University. ``We should be ashamed of this and accept it.''
( CNN ) It wasn't until her 20s that Fethiye Cetin discovered her Armenian ancestry. Her grandmother, 90 years old at the time, told Cetin that her real name was Heranus. Like many other survivors of 1915, Heranus assimilated and kept her identity hidden. Many feared a repeat of the horrors they witnessed and barely escaped. In a crowded reception before a memorial concert in Istanbul this week, people rushed to greet Fethiye Cetin. A strong, soft-spoken woman now in her 60s, Cetin is a prominent lawyer who represented Armenian-Turkish journalist Hrant Dink. Dink was a strong proponent of reconciliation between Turks and Armenians who was tried for ``insulting Turkishness.'' He was assassinated in 2007. The shocking discovery of her true heritage would change Cetin's life. She tells Heranus' story in an evocative memoir titled ``My Grandmother.'' Heranus and her family were among a massive stream of women and children being forcibly marched by Ottoman soldiers, not knowing where they were going or why they were torn away from their male relatives. Echoing throughout the procession were morbid whispers that the men and teenage boys had all been killed. Heranus was 9 at the time. An officer spotted her and her brother and wanted to take them away. Her mother protested but she was told by others, ``The children are dying one by one. No one will make it out alive from this march. If you give them, their lives will be saved.''. Heranus and her brother were scooped up onto the officer's horse and taken to a garden packed with other children and fed the first warm meal they had had in days. But soon reality set in and Heranus began to cry and beg to see her mother. Heranus was separated from her brother, adopted by the officer and his wife, who could not have children of their own. Her name was changed to Seher and she was raised Muslim. And so she survived, had children and grandchildren. Cetin was in law school when her grandmother revealed her secret and painful memories of her Armenian roots. It shattered all that she knew to be real. The 1915 forced deportations and massacres were not taught in Turkey's schools. ``There was a huge silence'' Cetin said. ``It was not just the victims that were silent ; it was all of society.''. Cetin felt rebellion welling up inside her. ``I wanted to go on the streets and scream that they are lying to us,'' she remembers, ``a cruelty like this happened, and I wanted to shout it out loud.''. Armenia and the Armenian diaspora have been doing exactly that and demanding that the ``Great Catastrophe'' be recognized as genocide by Turkey and the world. Armenian President Serzh Sargysan said earlier this year that ``impunity paved a path to Holocaust and genocides in Rwanda, Cambodia and Darfur.''. The survivors of 1915 and witnesses remember massacres, bloodied rivers, concentration camps, rape and death marches into the Syrian desert. The Republic of Turkey has always rejected the term ``genocide.'' Rather, the Ottoman Empire's Committee of Union and Progress believed Armenian nationalists to be collaborating with the Russian army, which was at war with the Ottoman Empire. To prevent this alliance and stop violence against civilians, the committee undertook a policy of ``relocation'' to move Armenian populations residing in or near the war zone to southern provinces. Turkey argues that wartime conditions, famine and internal conflicts led to the death of millions of Ottomans, including Armenian subjects. But it's only in the last decade that public dialogue in Turkey began. ``We just started breaking the silence recently'', Cetin said. ``People were quiet for 90 years in this country.''. Turkish leaders have recently taken a more reconciliatory tone. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan offered Turkey's condolences last year to the descendants of the Armenians who lost their lives. He called for the establishment of a joint historical commission in order to study the ``events'' of 1915. But Pope Francis' use of the word ``genocide'' and the European Parliament's resolution last week angered Turkish leaders. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs called the resolution ``selective and one-sided,'' claiming it repeated ``anti-Turkish clichés.'' Erdogan deemed it a ``hostile campaign against Turkey.''. This week, Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu repeated the call for a historical inquiry and the need for an approach based on ``just memory'' for a ``common peaceful future.'' He asked that third parties, such as Pope Francis, refrain from ``aggravating age-old wounds.''. A century on, Cetin says the dynamism surrounding the 100th anniversary excites her, bringing together artists, musicians, scholars and intellectuals as well as Turkey's citizens of all ethnicities and Armenians from across the world. If the government were to acknowledge 1915 as a genocide, it would speed up the reconciliation and healing process, she says. ``But if it does not face genocide, then it does not matter. Society coming face to face with it is more important.''. Still Cetin remains hopeful that Turkey will accept its moral obligation towards history and its people. As an Armenian Turk, Cetin has helped others retrace their roots and look for long lost answers. But for many, the emotional journey remains unfulfilled as long as Turkey denies the cause of their pain.
( CNN ) For years, when I'd tell new friends I was half-Armenian, a puzzled look would cross their faces, before they'd ask something like, ``Do you have a country ?'' Or, when there was a spark of recognition, they'd chortle, ``Ah, you're the people with the last names all ending in `ian' !''. In fact, one of our most famous Armenians, Cher, was better known for her Oscar-winning portrayals of Italians, and had dropped her own identifying surname. The decimation of our people, too, was reduced to a footnote -- if we were lucky -- in tomes about World War I, when more than one million Armenians were killed during the last days of the Ottoman Empire. Most of the time, though, the coverage was about how Armenians and Turks hate each other like cats and dogs, that the Turks continue to deny that ethnic cleansing occurred, saying the Armenians had hatched a rebellion, and that the leaders had no choice but to deport them from their homes and put them on the road that led to their deaths. Even Adolf Hitler had brushed us aside, uttering, just before invading Poland in September 1939 : ``Who, after all, speaks today of the annihilation of the Armenians ?'' according to the former bureau chief of The Associated Press in Berlin, Louis Lochner. Apparently he hadn't the anticipated the Kardashian juggernaut. As Kim Kardashian, sister Khloe and their two cousins recently toured Armenia -- on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the mass killings, which is marked on April 24 -- they spotlighted a humanitarian crime that Pope Francis recently called ``the first genocide of the 20th century.''. Suddenly, the poor landlocked country of Armenia was trending. Standing in front of the statute of ``Mother Armenia,'' Kim seemed to seize the label herself, and the adoring crowds appeared to agree. On another stop of her tour, she dressed in a red jumpsuit, and placed tulips at the slate gray Armenian Genocide memorial complex, bringing new color to an issue and to a people who usually pay tribute to their dead relatives every year in their best funereal black. After the Kardashian trip to Armenia, my elderly mother Anahid called me nearly breathless with pride : ``Have you seen ? The genocide is all over the news ! That famous lady, Kim Kardashian, has done it !'' My mother's own father, Stepan Miskjian, with his own ``ian'' surname, had narrowly survived the killings. He told of how an entire caravan of thousands was killed in what's now eastern Syria, and that he only escaped by waiting until night and crawling out on his hands and knees past the ring of guards, and then crossing the desert for six days with only enough water to fill two cups. When the Kardashians first rose to fame, many Armenians cringed over their potboiler storyline, their million-dollar weddings to basketball players and rappers, multiple divorces, and a clothing line at Sears. Through their fame, though, people began to learn about Armenians -- even people outside Los Angeles, where the Armenian population is as thick as the Kardashian hair. That Americans may also have been equating the ancient culture with the latest ``Keeping Up with the Kardashian'' plotline was a source of discomfort for the community. But every once in a while, Kim Kardashian would tweet something about the issue -- and slowly the community began to warm to her. Meanwhile, many Armenians continued to brainstorm about how to convince Turkey to acknowledge the truth about what happened, and how to persuade the President Barack Obama to label the killings ``genocide,'' as he promised when first campaigning for the highest office. We cheered and forwarded emails every time a rumor surfaced that Steven Spielberg was going to take one of our family stories to the big screen, give us our own ``Schindler's List,'' and hoped maybe now the world would be forced to listen. And we would deflate when it wouldn't come to fruition. And every April 24, the day in 1915 when Ottoman Turks began rounding up the community's intellectual leaders, we mobilized. And we will do so again this year, holding candlelight vigils, concerts, and protest marches, while waving the Armenian flag, even though many of us have never been to the country ourselves. We also press forward on the academic front, holding conferences on the latest research around the world, exulting in the discovery of yet another bit of information that would surely make the world reckon, that would counter Turkey's steadfast pressure on the United States to not acknowledge the atrocities. And still, disappointingly, early reports surfaced yet once more, as in years before, that Obama has decided again on this year's anniversary not to use the g-word. Despite all the setbacks, the Armenians will continue to speak out, and hopefully find some hallowed ground, too, to stand with Turks to heal. After all, we've learned an increased dialogue can come from the most surprising places. This year, it took a reality star, famous for balancing a cocktail on her rump, to catapult it to the top of the news once again, like it was on December 15, 1915, when headlines like ``Million Armenians Killed or in Exile,'' splashed across the New York Times and other international media. After a century of trying to raise awareness, what we needed all along was a television and Internet persona to join us -- especially one who shares everything on every platform -- to shed light on a crime that occurred back when telegrams were the speedy form of communication, and photographic plates of the killings had to be smuggled out in a belt, rather than blasted instantaneously with a tweet. The queen of the selfies has finally used her attention for good, and hopefully it won't be as short-lived as some of her other memes. That's a crusade I can follow in any medium.
( CNN ) Sophisticated, glamorous and spacious -- when the super-rich go house-hunting they are searching for something special. Real estate in London's swankier suburbs can catch a buyers' eye. Mayfair, Kensington and Chelsea have long been the stomping ground of the elite -- and are now welcoming a new wave of African investors. ``The Africans who are coming into London now are Africans who themselves have worked for their money,'' explains Bimpe Nkontchou, a British-Nigerian wealth manager based in London. ``They have grown in industry and are actually part of the exciting story of the African renaissance,'' she continues. ``It's bringing to London the best of the continent.''. These investors are having a considerable impact on London's property market and they mainly come from just six countries : Nigeria, Ghana, Congo, Gabon, Cameroon and Senegal. Of these, Nigerians are splashing out the most cash when it comes to bricks and mortar in the British capital -- typically spending between $ 22 and $ 37 million on securing a property, according to luxury property agents Beauchamp Estates. Their research shows that over the past three years Africans have spent over $ 900 million on luxury residential property in London. ``The new international African is very well-traveled,'' explains Nkontchou. ``Educated in the U.S., UK and different parts of Europe their taste is definitely more modern and clean.''. `Safe-Haven'. Owning a home in post codes like W1 or W8 -- around the corner from Kensington Palace -- means more than having a place to lay your head. These buildings are investments which are expected to gain even bigger value in the coming years. High-end auction house Sotheby's says that foreign investors see London as a ``safe haven'' for prime property investments, and ranks the city as the second most important hub for ultra high-net-worth homes. The only spot more important on the planet is New York City. For evidence that London still attracts high-end buyers, look no further than the sale of a penthouse in Mayfair which fetched $ 40 million earlier this year. Educated thinking. As well as an intelligent investment, many of the African buyers see these houses as a way of maintaining long standing cultural ties with London -- and it's here they want to send their children to school. Harrow, Eton, Cheltenham Ladies College are all among the list of respected institutions that teach the offspring of wealthy Africans. The Nigerian Embassy in London calculates that Nigerian nationals now spend over $ 446 million per year on fees, tutoring and accommodation at British schools and university. ``West African clients are very much driven by the need to educate their children,'' says Nkontchou. ``Education usually means putting the children on an international stage, and that's one reason why this is feeding into the demand for property in London.''. Indeed, education industry experts ICEF Monitor say there were over 17,500 Nigerians studying in British universities in 2012 -- about 1,000 more than the 2009/10 academic session. And experts are expecting this trend to continue. ``Virtually all the transactions are for end use, not rental investment, which indicates that the African buyer market in London has significant room for growth,'' says Gary Hersham, director at Beauchamp Estates. ``African buyers or luxury tenants in London are currently where the Russians and Ukrainians were five years ago. They have the resources and desire to purchase or rental luxury homes in Prime Central London,'' he adds. ``It is going to be the African century. ``More from Marketplace Africa. Read this : Africa's green lean speed machines. Read this : African designs rocking art world. Editor's Note : CNN Marketplace Africa covers the macro trends impacting the region and also focuses on the continent's key industries and corporations.
( CNN ) When Bruce Jenner told ABC's Diane Sawyer and the world on Friday night that ``Yes, for all intents and purposes, I'm a woman,'' the declaration wasn't particularly surprising. Paparazzi have been stalking the former Olympic champion for months, breathlessly documenting his increasingly feminine appearance down to his lip gloss, pierced ears and French manicure. The social media reaction ? A cheer, a shrug -- and not much else. Except the occasional prod at Jenner also being Republican. Of course, Jenner's family owned the moment, being the reality TV mavens they are -- the Jenners and the Kardashians. ``So very proud of you, my hero,'' tweeted daughter Kendall Jenner. His other daughter Kylie Jenner expressed mixed emotions. ``Understandingly, this has been very hard for me. You will hear what I have to say when I'm ready to but.. this isn't about me. I'm so proud of you, Dad. You are so brave. My beautiful Hero,'' she said on Twitter. Ex-wife Kris Jenner was equally supportive. ``Not only was I able to call him my husband for 25 years and father of my children, I am now able to call him my hero,'' she said. Stepdaughters Kim, Khloé and Kourtney Kardashian also joined the family chorus. ``Love is the courage to live the truest, best version of yourself. Bruce is love. I love you Bruce. #ProudDaughter,'' Kim tweeted. ``Just finished watching the #BruceJennerInterview with the family. Bruzer, I'm soooo proud of you ! Dads really are heros ❤,'' Khloé said on Twitter. ``Couldn't be a more proud daughter. With courage and bravery, let's change the world. I am honored to stand by Bruce's side and support him,'' Kourtney said. The entertainment industry was quick to embrace the news. Lady Gaga has long supported lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues. ``We have the chance to write this moment in history together,'' she tweeted. ``Let's empower people like Bruce all over the world by being loving & not mean.''. Transgender actress Laverne Cox of ``Orange is the New Black'' gave a shout out. ``Sending lots of love and support to #BruceJenner and their family tonight,'' she tweeted. ``It is always brave to stand in one's truth. Congrats darling.''. The Jenner interview was a key moment for advocacy groups like GLAAD and the National Center for Transgender Equality, thrusting LGBT issues into the spotlight. ``Today, millions of people learned that someone they know is transgender,'' GLAAD tweeted. ``Welcome, #BruceJenner,'' Trans Equality tweeted. ``Thank you for your courage and bravery.''. As with all things, public opinion is hardly unanimous and social media only represents the views of those who post. Still, there were few detractors. One man used an Old Testament Bible verse as the basis for his stance. ``GOP Logic : Bruce Jenner is not Gay.. but Transgender,'' Benny said on Twitter. ``Still forbidden by the Bible but we cherrypick.''. This woman wasn't sure what to make of Jenner's announcement. ``Still confused about Bruce Jenner becoming a woman..,'' tweeted HugHey. And what would a social media event be without a good dose of humor. Many folks seemed to be more intrigued by Jenner's announcement that he's Republican than him coming out as a woman. ``I accept that Bruce Jenner is a Republican and wish him happiness, even if I can't understand it,'' said Johnny McNulty. ``I'll accept Bruce Jenner's choice to live how he wants much easier than leftists will accept his politics,'' CounterMoonbat said on twitter. And this final nugget from Bibi. ``Bruce Jenner : * comes out as a woman *. ``Everyone : ``Yas girl, slay''. ``Bruce Jenner : * comes out as a republican *. Everyone : ``disgusting''
( CNN ) Fifty years ago in Frankfurt, German prosecutors tried 22 former Nazi SS soldiers at Auschwitz in what remains the most famous Holocaust trial staged in Germany. At the time, Fritz Bauer, the German-Jewish attorney general of Hessen, expressed the simple hope that ``sooner or later, one of the accused would step forward and say : `What took place -- it was horrific, I'm sorry.' Then the entire world would exhale, as would all the survivors of those killed at Auschwitz, and the air would be cleared.'' Sadly, Bauer observed, ``it has not been uttered, nor will it be.''. The refusal of perpetrators to own up to their guilt remains one of the most disappointing aspects of Holocaust trials. John Demjanjuk, whose conviction by a Munich court in 2011 established the precedent that has now made possible the trial of Oskar Gröning, remained defiantly silent during his 18-month trial, never so much as breathing a word of acknowledgment or remorse. Over the years, some defendants have acknowledged knowing of the exterminations, but have insisted that they played no role. Those who acknowledged participating in the killing insisted that they did so out of fear of life or limb. Over the years, an extraordinary research effort was dedicated to exploring the claim that SS men had engaged in extermination out of duress. The results were astonishing : Investigators and historians failed to uncover so much as a single instance in which a German officer or NCO had been executed or even severely punished for opting out of genocide. Not one. These evasions and lies were often effective, as many German trials of Holocaust perpetrators ended either in light sentences or outright acquittal. And even when a trial ended in a conviction, what was missing was any sense of moral reckoning, an acknowledgment on the part of the accused of the perversity of genocide. Fritz Bauer can now exhale. On April 21, on the opening day of his trial in Lüneburg, where he stands accused of complicity in the murder of 300,000 Jews during his service at Auschwitz, the 93-year-old Gröning faced the court and acknowledged, ``It is beyond question that I am morally complicit. This moral guilt I acknowledge here, before the victims, with regret and humility.'' If nothing else comes from the trial, that statement alone justifies the undertaking. Of course, in acknowledging his moral complicity, Gröning fell short of confessing legal guilt. Indeed, for years he has insisted in his innocence as a matter of law, arguing, in an interview with Der Spiegel in 2005, that he had been no more than a ``cog in the gears.'' At Auschwitz, Gröning was responsible for inspecting the luggage of deportees to the camp -- most of whom were gassed within hours of their arrival -- for banknotes that would be carefully counted and sent to Berlin. In performing this task, Gröning insists that he never engaged in cruel, murderous or sadistic acts -- a claim that we can probably accept as true. But does this relieve him of criminal liability ? For decades German courts held that mere service as a concentration camp -- in the absence of evidence of a personal act of killing -- constituted no crime under German law. In 2011, the Demjanjuk conviction changed that. In convicting Demjanjuk as an accessory to the murder of 28,000 Jews at the Sobibor death camp, the Munich court concluded that death camp guards, regardless of how they had conducted themselves, had to be accessories to murder, because that was their job. It was a crucial breakthrough, because it recognized that mass killing is not a personal act of evil but an exterminatory process. When it comes to factory-like genocide, guilt is not to be measured by acts of cruelty or nastiness ; guilt follows function. Convicting under that theory was the great accomplishment of the Munich court. By this standard, Gröning's truthful claim that he was no more than ``a cog'' constitutes an admission of guilt. This does not mean that Gröning deserves the same measure of punishment as an SS sadist. In fact, it's not clear that he deserves any punishment besides the symbolic gesture of conviction. But without the court's conviction, Gröning's important acceptance of moral guilt will remain incomplete. The significance of Gröning's trial can be measured in one final way. Many have observed that it coincides with the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II. But it also coincides with an anniversary of a different sort. April 24 marks the day that millions mourn the killing of hundreds of thousands of Armenians by the Ottomans during World War I, an event many have described as genocide. And yet the Turkish nation itself remains in denial of the mass killings that unfolded a hundred years ago. With that in mind, Gröning's trial reminds us of other mass atrocities that still await their moment of moral and legal reckoning.
( CNN ) Living under ISIS. Selling Girl Scout cookies. And giving some lip -- like Kylie Jenner. These are the best videos of the week. In the West, ISIS is widely known for its terrorist actions. But for some communities, the group is the local governing authority, picking up garbage and directing traffic. CNN's Atika Shubert explains how ISIS functions as a state. The video is at the top of this story. It's an annual tradition : Girl Scouts sell cookies -- and, in the millions, we buy them. But is this the best way for them to raise money ? CNN's Richard Roth asks about a sweet tradition that's leaving some with a bitter taste. Watch the video :. The use of marijuana has long been a source of controversy, but on movies and TV shows, it's also long been a source of humor. CNN's Lisa France has a blunt look at the herb in pop culture. Watch the video :. Many climate scientists believe that an increase of 2 degrees Celsius in the global average temperature could be the tipping point for climate change. CNN's John D. Sutter takes a measure. Watch the video :. Back in the'50s, ``The Blob'' was a low-budget horror/sci-fi film. Today, it's reality, as ``blobs'' of warm water in the Pacific Ocean may be having an impact on storms and marine life. CNN's Jennifer Gray takes a look. Watch the video :. A newly discovered frog has a distinct resemblance to a certain ``Not Easy Being Green'' Muppet, Kermit the Frog. Kermit himself noted the similarities. So what is this amphibian ?. Watch the video :. In another attempt to keep up with the Kardashians, some children and teens are using suction to make their lips look just like Kyle Jenner's. The #KylieJennerChallenge hasn't escaped notice. Watch the video :. ``Iron Man'' Robert Downey Jr. was distinctly flinty when dealing with the questions of a British interviewer. He finally walked out -- and he hasn't been the only one to decide to take off his microphone. Watch the video :. You've heard of drones in the air. Now the Pentagon is working on drones at sea -- and they could be valuable tools in tracking enemy ships. Watch the video :. Recent incidents have brought attention to the question of when police are allowed to use deadly force. CNN legal analyst Sunny Hostin looks at the laws for law enforcement. Watch the video :. Michelle Obama is 51 years old -- but she certainly doesn't look it, particularly in the eyes of one youngster. Watch the video :.
April 23, 2015. Some questions addressed this Thursday : How has the U.S. Supreme Court addressed the use of force by police ? What impact might lower gas prices be having on hybrid vehicle sales ? What is ``The Blob,'' and what role does it play in the Pacific Ocean ? We're also delivering a random fact about a state vegetable and showing how a robot has two legs up on good balance. On this page you will find today's show Transcript and a place for you to request to be on the CNN Student News Roll Call. TRANSCRIPT. Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. Please note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is available and when the transcript is published. CNN Student News is created by a team of journalists who consider the Common Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and state standards when producing the show. ROLL CALL. For a chance to be mentioned on the next CNN Student News, comment on the bottom of this page with your school name, mascot, city and state. We will be selecting schools from the comments of the previous show. You must be a teacher or a student age 13 or older to request a mention on the CNN Student News Roll Call !. Thank you for using CNN Student News !
( CNN ) Protests are gaining steam in Baltimore after a man died from a devastating injury he allegedly suffered while in police custody. Demonstrators have vowed they'll keep taking to the streets until they get justice. To start, protesters say they're looking for answers about what happened to Freddie Gray, and why. But it seems like the questions in the controversial case just keep growing. Protesters rallied at Baltimore City Hall on Thursday, and another march is planned for Saturday. Here's a look at key issues protesters are asking about :. Police say when Gray saw police on April 12, he started running. Within minutes, they caught up with him and arrested him after finding a knife in his pocket. Protesters have echoed the claims of the Gray family's attorney, who argues that police didn't have any probable cause to pursue him, but chased him for ``running while black.''. Baltimore Police union attorney Michael Davey told reporters Wednesday that officers had every right to chase Gray. ``There is a Supreme Court case that states that if you are in a high-crime area, and you flee from the police unprovoked, the police have the legal ability to pursue you, and that's what they did,'' he said. ``In this type of an incident, you do not need probable cause to arrest. You just need a reasonable suspicion to make the stop.''. An autopsy says Gray died from a severe spinal cord injury. His family says his voice box was crushed and his neck snapped before he slipped into a coma and later died. Police say they spotted Gray, gave chase, caught him, cuffed him and requested a ``wagon'' to transport him in less than four minutes. The transport van left with Gray about 11 minutes afterward, police said, and another 30 minutes passed before ``units request paramedics to the Western District to transport the suspect to an area hospital.''. Protesters want to know exactly what happened in those 30 minutes, and say it's clear police used too much force when Gray was in their custody. Investigators still haven't said what happened inside the van. Union officials from the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 3 say something happened inside the vehicle, but they don't know what. Baltimore Police Commissioner Anthony Batts told CNN affiliate WJZ that another prisoner inside the van said he didn't see any harm done to Gray. ``What he has said is that he heard Freddie thrashing about,'' Batts said. ``The driver didn't drive erratically, wasn't slamming on breaks, wasn't turning corners fast or in an irrational way.''. Five of the six officers involved in Gray's arrest have provided statements to investigators, the Baltimore Police Department said Wednesday. ``They have completely cooperated with the investigation from Day 1,'' Davey told reporters. But details of what the officers said haven't been released yet by authorities. Neither have the officers' personnel records or photos. Police say doing that would violate the law. The lack of details a week and a half after the incident is fueling cries from the public, and the lawmakers who represent them. Protesters say police should be releasing what they know now. Baltimore Police officials say they're being as transparent as they can about the case while their criminal investigation is ongoing. And they say they plan to hand over details from the investigation to the State Attorney's Office next week. Some protesters say the officers should be charged with murder for Gray's death. Officials say an investigation is ongoing, and all the officers involved have been suspended with pay. At this point, it isn't clear whether any charges will be filed. The U.S. Justice Department is also investigating the case. The police union said it's 100 % behind the officers and compared protesters to a lynch mob, accusing them of calling for charges against officers without knowing the facts of the case or giving them a day in court. ``There is, at this time, no indication of any criminal activity whatsoever,'' the union's statement said, ``but our support will not waiver for any reason.''. Gray's case is getting a lot of attention. But protest organizers say it's emblematic of a broader problem. Some protesters say it's not the only time they've seen police brutality on the streets of their city. Long before they took to the streets to demonstrate over Gray's death, some of them had already been at city hall, voicing their concerns over other cases. ``Right now there's a lot of mistrust. They feel it's us versus them,'' Baltimore City Council President Jack Young said. ``It should not be that way and it needs to be fixed.''. According to the Baltimore Sun, the city has paid more than $ 5.7 million since 2011 for more than 100 cases involving allegations of police wrongdoing. Police didn't admit fault in any of the cases. The police union said in a statement on Wednesday that the reason for the settlements was simple : City officials believe lawsuits are too costly. ``Let us be clear, we completely disagree with this policy, as many of these cases are settled without concern for the facts but, rather, to avoid the high cost of defending a potential lawsuit. We believe that these cases should be decided in court where proper time and attention can be given,'' the union said. ``The ease of settlement, and substantial award amount, has led to the unjustified perception of an increase in brutality complaints.''. CNN's Dana Ford, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Suzanne Malveaux, Jake Tapper, Miguel Marquez, Brian Todd, Polo Sandoval, Justin Lear, Jason Carroll and Patrick Cornell contributed to this report.
( CNN ) One of the youngest suspects yet has been arrested on terror-related charges in England. A 14-year-old boy was taken into custody after encouraging an attack on an Australian parade honoring the war dead and urging the beheading of ``someone in Australia,'' Deborah Walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the Crown Prosecution Service, said in a statement Thursday. The teenager was taken into custody April 2 after UK's Greater Manchester police examined electronic devices and discovered communications between the teen and a man in Australia, police said in a statement. The teenager, arrested in Blackburn, Lancashire, was not named ``because of legal reasons,'' the statement said. He was charged with two counts of inciting another person to commit an act of terrorism overseas and will appear in Westminster Magistrate's Court on Friday. He was communicating with suspects in Operation Rising, an Australian law enforcement operation that apprehended several men suspected of planning terrorist actions, police in Victoria, Australia, said on the department website. Australia : Charges in foiled `ISIS-inspired' plot. Those acts of terror were planned for Anzac Day ( Australia and New Zealand Army Corps Day ) on Friday, the centennial of the Gallipoli Campaign in World War I, police said. ``The first allegation is that, between 15 and 26 March 2015, the defendant incited another person to commit an act of terrorism, namely to carry out an attack at an ANZAC parade in Australia with the aim of killing and/or causing serious injury to people,'' Walsh said. ``The second allegation is that on 18 March 2015, the defendant incited another person to behead someone in Australia.''. Australian law enforcement officers arrested several people last weekend in Operation Rising. Tuesday, Victoria Police and the Australian Federal Police charged Sevdet Ramdan Besim with conspiracy to commit acts done in preparation for, or planning, terrorist acts. Authorities have not named the person with whom the 14-year-old in Britain was communicating. British teens face terror charges after being detained en route to Syria. CNN's Alexander Felton contributed to this report.
( CNN ) I've visited Nepal at least half a dozen times over the last decade, and of the more than 100 countries that Save the Children serves, it is undoubtedly one of my favorites. There are the usual things that are said about it -- the stunning landscape, which includes Mount Everest, and the amazing food. But Nepal has also made some of the most remarkable progress on maternal and child health in the last few years. In fact, I remember a time just last May when I sat with a group of mothers and their tiny babies as they told me how proud they were that they now understood how important it was to make sure they prioritized breastfeeding and nutritious foods. They spoke of the wonderful future they were now expecting for their children, and they shared with me the big dreams that they had. So you can imagine the indescribable sadness I experienced waking up this morning and seeing the news reports that Nepal had been hit by its worst earthquake since 1934, when more than 10,000 people were killed. While casualty accounts following the magnitude-7.8 quake Saturday are still difficult to confirm -- hardly surprising considering that communication lines have been severely disrupted -- estimates we are hearing from the ground are already placing the number lost in the thousands, with the official toll now at around 1,500 expected to keep growing as the hours and days pass. The fact that the epicenter of this quake was so close to the capital of Kathmandu, where the majority of Nepal's citizens reside, makes the situation even more dire. Many of these people live in cramped conditions and have never lived outside the city. As a result, it is unlikely they even have a home village to go to temporarily for shelter. Housing the scores of newly homeless will be a tall order. It is still quite cold at night in Nepal, so getting these people into shelters quickly will be of the utmost importance. Compounding this very serious problem will be the difficulty in ensuring that those affected have access to clean water in the coming days ; Nepal already had one of the lowest standards of sanitation in the world before the quake. In fact, even getting food to people will be a logistical nightmare, given that the entire country -- which is about the size of Tennessee -- is served by only two main roads, which have likely been badly damaged, if not destroyed. We have been in situations like this before, and know what to do. But time is not on our side -- we have only a few short weeks before the rainy season begins, which will make an already difficult job close to impossible. With that in mind, we have set up a fund to help address the immediate needs of children, who are always the most vulnerable in an emergency. We and other relief organizations will be doing everything we can to help get Nepal back on its feet without having to wait for more people to die from diseases that will inevitably come from contaminated water and the like. Only the oldest Nepalese will remember the last major earthquake, so the psychological toll for the majority of the country will be a significant and ongoing concerning for us as we and other agencies launch our response. And while we can rebuild Nepal after this tragedy, it will take time and help. I hope that we can all play a role in making sure that the tremendous gains that have been made in this country that I love so dearly will not have been in vain.
( CNN ) It's been a busy few weeks for multiples. The first set of female quintuplets in the world since 1969 was born in Houston on April 8, and the parents are blogging about their unique experience. Danielle Busby delivered all five girls at the Woman's Hospital of Texas via C-section at 28 weeks and two days, according to CNN affiliate KPRC. Parents Danielle and Adam and big sister Blayke are now a family of eight. The babies are named Ava Lane, Hazel Grace, Olivia Marie, Parker Kate and Riley Paige. ``We are so thankful and blessed,'' said Danielle Busby, who had intrauterine insemination to get pregnant. ``I honestly give all the credit to my God. I am so thankful for this wonderful hospital and team of people here. They truly all are amazing.''. You can learn all about their journey at their blog, ``It's a Buzz World.''. Early news reports said the Busby girls were the first all-female quintuplets born in the U.S. But a user alerted CNN to news clippings that show quintuplet girls were born in 1959 to Charles and Cecilia Hannan in San Antonio. All of the girls died within 24 hours. Like the Busby family, Sharon and Korey Rademacher were hoping for a second child. When they found out what they were having, they decided to keep it a secret from family and friends. That's why they didn't tell their family the gender of baby No. 2 -- or that Sharon was actually expecting not one but two girls, according to CNN affiliate WEAR. And when everyone arrived at West Florida Hospital in Pensacola, Florida, after Sharon gave birth March 11, they recorded everyone's reactions to meeting twins Mary Ann Grace and Brianna Faith. The video was uploaded to YouTube on Saturday and has been viewed more than 700,000 times. Could you keep it a secret ?
( CNN ) It's a warm afternoon in Miami, and 35-year-old Emanuel Vega has come to Baptist Health Primary Care for a physical exam. Dr. Mark Caruso shakes his hand with a welcoming smile. Vega, a strapping man with a thick black beard, is feeling good, but he came to see the doctor today because his wife thought he should -- she even made the appointment. It is free to him under his insurance policy with no co-pay, as most preventive care is under the Affordable Care Act. Vega is one of more than 44 million Americans who is taking part in a medical ritual : visiting the doctor for an annual physical exam. But there's little evidence that those visits actually do any good for healthy adults. Caruso listens to Vega's heart and lungs, checks his pulse in his ankles and feels around his lymph nodes. He also asks Vega about his exercise and sleeping schedule and orders blood and urine tests. As long as everything checks out, Caruso asks Vega to return for another exam in a year. Vega says he definitely will. It was a positive experience for both doctor and patient, and they're not alone ; 92 percent of Americans say it is important to get an annual head-to-toe physical exam, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll ( KHN is an editorially independent program of the foundation ). And 62 percent of those polled said they went to the doctor every year for their exam. But the evidence is not on their side. ``I would argue that we should move forward with the elimination of the annual physical,'' says Dr. Ateev Mehrotra, a primary care physician and a professor of health policy at Harvard Medical School. Mehrotra says patients should really only go to the doctor if something is wrong, or if it's time to have an important preventive test like a colonoscopy. He realizes popular opinion is against this view. ``When I, as a doctor, say I do not advocate for the annual physical, I feel like I'm attacking moms and apple pie,'' Mehrotra says. ``It seems so intuitive and straightforward, and -LSB- it's -RSB- something that's been part of medicine for such a long time.''. But he says randomized trials going back to the 1980s just don't support it. The Society for General Internal Medicine even put annual physicals on a list of things doctors should avoid for healthy adults. One problem, Mehrotra says, is the cost. Each visit usually costs insurers just $ 150, but that adds up fast. ``We estimate that it's about $ 10 billion a year, which is more than how much we spend as a society on breast cancer care,'' Mehrotra says. ``It's all a lot of money.''. And then there's the risk that a doctor will run a test and find a problem that's not actually there. It's called a false positive, and it can lead to a cascade of follow-up tests that can be expensive and could even cause real harm. Dr. Michael Rothberg is another primary care physician and a health researcher at the Cleveland Clinic. He generally avoids giving physicals. ``I generally don't like to frighten people and I don't like to give them diseases they don't have,'' Rothberg says. ``I mostly tell my family, `if you're feeling well, stay away from doctors. If you get near them, they'll start to look for things and order tests because that's what doctors do.'''. ``The flip side of that is if you're not feeling well, don't keep it to yourself. Don't minimize it. Don't pretend it's not there,'' he adds. Rothberg says he still has patients who always schedule an annual exam. For those patients, he skips the physical aspects of the exam and focuses instead on talking to them about their dietary and exercise habits, possible risks, age-appropriate vaccinations and any screening tests they may need. The guidelines discouraging annual physicals are aimed specifically at asymptomatic adults. Dr. David Fleming, president of the American College of Physicians, says it's important for elderly patients to be seen on a regular basis, to ``do a full assessment of everything -- how they live at home, if the conditions are safe, are they at risk of falling ? They need a flu shots every year. This is a population where it's definitely indicated.''. Back in Miami, Caruso is also well versed in the research on annual physicals, but he still believes in them. ``I think having a look at somebody is worth its weight in gold,'' he says. It's an important part of developing a relationship with a patient, he says, and there have been countless times when he's found real problems during an exam just like the one he gave to Vega. ``What if Mr. Vega had had a lump or bump that wasn't right ?'' Caruso asks. ``What if when he had his shirt off, Mr. Vega said, `Oh yeah, I forgot to mention this spot on my chest,' and it ended up being a melanoma we discovered early ?''. And Vega did end up needing a little help -- he has a bad back that's landed him in the ER several times. Caruso was able to link him up with a back specialist to help him manage the problem. Kaiser Health News ( KHN ) is a nonprofit national health policy news service.
( CNN ) Tobacco companies including Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds filed suit this week against the Food and Drug Administration alleging that the FDA is violating the companies' free speech rights. In March, the FDA issued guidance that if significant changes are made to a product's label, like color or a logo, the product requires new approval from the administration. This holds true even if the product was previously approved. The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Washington, argues that those guidelines go too far and are too vague. They violate the First Amendment because they pre-emptively restrict free speech and exceed the scope of the Tobacco Control Act, the companies claim. The FDA's actions, the suit says, do not advance a substantial government interest. The plaintiffs also include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Co., American Snuff Co., Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. and Lorillard Tobacco Co.. FDA spokesman Michael Felberbaum said the administration does not comment on litigation. CNN's Debra Goldschmidt contributed to this report.
Tokyo ( CNN ) On the 29th floor of Roppongi Hills, an upscale Tokyo high-rise full of offices, restaurants and residences, two actors in kimonos sit on a tatami mat and glare at each other as artificial smoke billows around them. It's been a long day of filming ``The Crawler in the Dark,'' a new sci-fi horror movie set in Japan's Meiji era. This movie won't be released in theaters ; it's going directly to YouTube. The file sharing website is celebrating 10 years since the first 19-second video ``Me at the zoo,'' was uploaded on April 23, 2005 by one of the site's founders. A decade later, the site gets billions of views every day. And the most popular YouTube channels draw larger audiences than many TV networks. In 2015, YouTube is striving to improve the quality of its content by investing in ``YouTube Spaces,'' like the one in Tokyo, where ``creators'' like Tokyo independent filmmaker JR Lipartito have access to professional studios, training, and many resources once out of reach for low budget productions. ``Having a set, especially a period set like this, is almost inaccessible for an independent filmmaker,'' Lipartito says. ``It really breaks down the barriers.''. David Macdonald, who moved to Japan as an English teacher two decades ago, is now the Head of YouTube Spaces for Asia Pacific. ``YouTube is not only cats and dogs on skateboards any more. It's a place for great content. Great high quality content,'' Macdonald says. The Tokyo space is one of five worldwide available for free to YouTube partners, who create content and share ad revenue with the website. ``Helping creators find better audiences, more audiences, and just improve their craft,'' Macdonald says. Anyone can create a YouTube channel. The most popular, 25-year-old Swedish gamer PewDiePie, has more than 36 million subscribers. Many of his videos have a viewership that exceeds popular television programs. YouTube has 300 hours of video uploads per minute. The website wants more of those videos to be polished productions. Japanese film and TV company Toei is partnering with YouTube to encourage more Japanese samurai dramas -- called Jidaigeki. The goal is to attract new subscribers in one of YouTube's biggest markets. ``They're building sets. We have high quality cameras, high quality sets, high quality actors,'' says Bob Werley, one of the actors in ``The Crawler in the Dark.''. Werley and fellow actor Masa Hitokawahata hope their higher quality work will appeal to more of YouTube's one billion users. ``It's going to raise the bar,'' Werley says. ``We've seen a lot more people wanting to use -LSB- the studio -RSB-, becoming aware of it, getting excited about it.''. If a video goes viral, the financial rewards can be significant. Thousands of the most popular YouTube creators earn six-figure incomes through ad revenue and sponsorships. A handful earn in the millions of dollars.
( CNN ) Have you ever found the creative inspiration you were seeking at the most unexpected time, or thought you were having that long-awaited problem-solving epiphany just as you nodded off to sleep ?. According to neuroscientists John Kounios and Mark Beeman, there's a reason for that. Their book, ``The Eureka Factor'', explores the influences at work behind that much sought-after ``Aha !'' moment. Research suggests that in trying to conjure up inspiration, most of us end up suppressing it. The book explains how to clear out mental junk, in order to make way for pivotal revelations. Dr. Kounios explained : ``Insights involve unusual connections. Cognitive psychologists call these `remote associations'. They are processed mostly in the brain's right hemisphere. Insights occur when a subconscious remote association suddenly pops into awareness. This is accompanied by a burst of activity in the brain's right temporal lobe.''. ``We wrote ``The Eureka Factor'' to help people understand how creative insight works in the brain so they can use various strategies harmoniously without having them cross-circuit each other,'' said Kounios. ``For example, there is evidence that imagining the future helps to put someone in an insightful state. However, if a person imagines a specific future that makes them anxious, then insightfulness could decrease because anxiety is a creativity killer.''. ``That said, a positive mood and a broad, expansive spread of attention are a couple of key features of the insightful state,'' he added. Following are some of the tips they suggest for unleashing your creative potential -- both at home and at work. Spaciousness helps broaden thoughts. Even high ceilings have been shown to broaden attention. Small, windowless offices, low ceilings and narrow corridors will do little to inspire our brains and make us flexible, creative thinkers. Relaxing outdoor colors such as blue and green contribute to this state. ``Emergency'' colors such as red suppress it. Surprisingly, dark colors and dim lighting can also be beneficial : by obscuring visual details, they help people think more abstractly. Static surroundings encourage static thinking. Don't be predictable. You should sometimes change everyday routines, such as where you go for coffee or your route to work. Rearrange your furniture and decor from time to time, at home and in your workplace. Hold meetings in a variety of places. Make sure to include some nonconformists in your inner circle. Unusual people tend to be out-of-the-box thinkers, and their unique outlook might help you attack a problem from a different angle. The threat of a firm deadline will narrow your thinking and inhibit your insight. Try and use soft target dates and a flexible schedule to establish a helpful, nonthreatening time frame. Rewards and punishments for meeting or missing deadlines, if needed at all, should be vague and mild so they don't contribute added pressure. A positive outlook will help stimulate a more open mind, one that can process a greater number of ideas. If you struggle to think happy, try focusing on the people and things that bring you joy. To put a twist on Pasteur's famous saying, chance favors the happy mind. When you're stuck on a problem, take a break to do or think about something very different. Expose yourself to a variety of people and places. Listen to music or go to a pleasing movie, art exhibit or talk a walk. Play a game, dance, do yoga, read. Insight triggers appear at the most unlikely times and places. We all know how important sleep is to our cognitive thinking. The sleep-deprived mind is more likely to fixate on small matters -- an absolute killer to creativity. Ample sleep also helps foster the discovery of hidden connections between ideas. Insightful thought is at its best when your powers of inhibition are weaker, because reduced focus opens up your awareness to remote associations that wouldn't come to you when you're feeling sharp. If you're an early bird, you should try doing your creative work at night. If you're a night owl, try the morning. Perhaps the single most important thing to remember is that your mental state can change. It takes a while to sink into an insightful mindset. Try and schedule uninterrupted blocks of time for relaxed, freewheeling creative thought. Turn off your phone. Get rid of the clock. Let abstract ideas and vague impressions flow where they will. Tips have been extracted from the book ``The Eureka Factor'', which has been written by Dr. John Kounios and Dr. Mark Beeman. How missing sleep can damage your IQ. How to make rejection work for you. 7 habits of highly ineffective people.
( CNN ) Doing weird stuff to your body in the name of beauty isn't anything new. Humans have been changing the shape of our skulls, inking ourselves up and sticking things through various protuberances since before we figured out how to write. But now we have Twitter and Facebook and hashtags, so these things seem to sweep around the world faster than a quick trip to the piercing joint. And somehow, many trends these days seem to somehow involve a member of the Kardashian clan. The latest : Lip plumping. By sucking on a jar. To look like Kylie Jenner. Seriously. It even has a hashtag : #KylieJennerChallenge. Don't worry, we said, ``What the.. ?'' too. But, we are, after all, in the business of providing you, dear reader, with information about the news, events and trends that surround you. So please read on to learn more about this and other ``beauty'' trends inspired by the Kardashians :. Used to be, YouTube would teach the kiddos how to put on eyeliner or style their hair like a favorite star. That's so old-school. Now, the nets say you should stick your lips in a shot glass, suck all the air out and then pull it off to reveal your all-new plump kisser, just like Kylie Jenner. Except, well, see for yourself. The hashtag #KylieJennerChallenge has been trending on Twitter in recent days, with posters showing off the often disturbing results of their efforts. ``Made my chin look like a hickey a week ago and I'll say iv never felt so dumb,'' Twitter user emmaburkie posted Monday. Plenty of folks shared the sentiment. Many were people who'd tried it. Others were just shaking their heads. Surgeon Dr. Dendy Engelman told Seventeen that the trend is dangerous. ``Not only can significant pain, swelling, and bruising result from these suction techniques, but there is potential risk for scarring and permanent disfigurement with repeated attempts,'' Engelman said. Jenner has tweeted her disapproval of the lip-plumping trend she inspired. It's a trend that predates the Kardashians, but they certainly gave us a lot of it : the sideboob, the flash of breast from the side of a dress, shirt or just about anything else that can be draped on a woman's body. According to Google, the arbiter of all things, search interest in sideboob has fallen off since its 2012 peak, when Huffington Post dutifully reported ``another day, another sideboob'' shot from Kim Kardashian. How about something newer ?. Surely you've heard of the ``belfie'' ?. A term reportedly coined by Kim Kardashian herself, this charming practice -- a butt selfie -- involves posting self-photography of one's posterior, thusly :. The trend took off last year, with a deluge of broadcast butts and not a little derision, but may have reached its peak with the apparently real belfie stick -- a device for taking ``perfect belfies simply and quickly.''. Butt never fear, Kylie Jenner is here to keep the trend going, with a belfie taken just this month liked by 1.4 million people :. Here's a fact for you : In 2014, the number of women undergoing ``buttock augmentation'' rose by a mountainous 86 %, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery Reports. Why ? Kim Kardashian, of course, say the doctors. ``While a rounder, more curvaceous derriere has been in vogue for a number of years, celebrities like ( Nicki ) Minaj and Kim Kardashian have brought the attention to the rear to an all-time high influencing more women to undergo buttock augmentation to achieve the hourglass look,'' Dr. Constantino Mendieta said in an ASAPS statement. And he should know. He bills himself a ``butt augmentation specialist.''. Back in the day, folks who wanted to look like Rachel from ``Friends'' got her haircut. Now, they get surgery. Well, some of them. Meet Jordan James Parke, who made news this year with an interview with Britain's The Sun newspaper in which he reportedly said he spent $ 150,000 to look like, you guessed it, Kim Kardashian. He later told US Magazine he doesn't want to look exactly like Kim. But he'd die for her butt. ``I'd like to get a bum as big as hers, but I won't get implants,'' the magazine quoted him as saying. ``I've been looking at body contour -- I want to get lipo on my stomach and back and then they put the fat back into your bum.''
( CNN ) Film critic Richard Corliss, whose populist passion for all genres of movies illuminated Time magazine's coverage of cinema for 35 years, died Thursday night in New York City. He was 71. Corliss died a week after suffering a major stroke, according to a tribute on Time's website by colleague Richard Zoglin, who called him ``perhaps the magazine's most quoted writer of all time.''. Unlike some critics, Corliss appreciated all kinds of movies -- from the arty drama of Ingmar Bergman to the epic fantasy of ``The Lord of the Rings.'' His all-TIME top 100 movies list, which he compiled with fellow Time critic Richard Schickel, contained everything from ``Pulp Fiction'' to ``Finding Nemo'' to Jackie Chan's ``Drunken Master II.''. ``He savored it all : the good, the bad, the indifferent. Except that he was indifferent to nothing,'' Zoglin wrote. ``To any fan or friend who would ask whether a new movie was `worth seeing,' Corliss had a stock, succinct reply : `Everything is worth seeing.'''. But Corliss was not afraid to puncture hype around big movies he found overrated, including ``Titanic'' ( ``dead in the water'' ) and even -- blasphemy ! -- ``Star Wars,'' about which he wrote, ``The movie's `legs' will prove as vulnerable as C-3PO's.''. He also didn't care much for sentimental, uplifting movies that often become mainstream hits and win Oscars. ``There are movies whose feel-good sentiments and slick craft annoy me so deeply that I know they will become box-office successes or top prizewinners,'' he once wrote. ``I call this internal mechanism my Built-In Hit Detector.''. A graceful and prolific writer, Corliss reviewed more than 1,000 movies, penned many Time cover stories and authored four books on film, including ``Mom in the Movies : The Iconic Screen Mothers You Love ( and a Few You Love to Hate ),'' published just last year. ( It was a partnership with Turner Classic Movies, which, like CNN, is owned by Turner Broadcasting. ). Some credit him with coining the phrase ``drop-dead gorgeous'' to describe actress Michelle Pfeiffer in a review of her 1985 film, ``Into the Night.''. He also cleverly, and subtly, gave away the big plot spoiler of ``The Crying Game'' by spelling it out with the first letters of each paragraph of his review. Born in Philadelphia, Corliss moved to New York after college and began writing film reviews for a variety of publications before joining Time in 1980. He served as editor of Film Comment, the movie journal of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, for 20 years, was a frequent guest on Charlie Rose's talk show and made annual pilgrimages to film festivals in Cannes, Toronto and Venice. ``It's painful to try to find words, since Richard was such a master of them,'' Time editor Nancy Gibbs wrote in a note Friday to her staffers. ``They were his tools, his toys, to the point that it felt sometimes as though he had to write, like the rest of us breathe and eat and sleep. It's not clear that Richard ever slept, for the sheer expanse of his knowledge and writing defies the normal contours of professional life.''. He is survived by his wife, Mary, a noted film critic in her own right, whom he married in 1969. People we've lost in 2015.
( CNN ) Another controversy has erupted from the press tour for the soon-to-be-blockbuster Marvel's ``Avengers : Age of Ultron.''. After Robert Downey Jr. walked out on an interview, his co-stars Chris Evans and Jeremy Renner found themselves in hot water Wednesday over comments they made in a similar junket interview. When asked by Digital Spy about the character Black Widow's flirtations with the other superheroes, Renner responded ``She's a slut,'' and Evans, laughing, added that she is a ``complete whore.''. Joking or not, fans on social media didn't take it lightly. By Thursday, both actors apologized. CNN obtained a statement from Renner saying, ``I am sorry that this tasteless joke about a fictional character offended anyone. It was not meant to be serious in any way. Just poking fun during an exhausting and tedious press tour.''. Evans also released a statement : ``Yesterday we were asked about the rumors that Black Widow wanted to be in a relationship with both Hawkeye and Captain America. We answered in a very juvenile and offensive way that rightfully angered some fans. I regret it and sincerely apologize.''. Many on social media accepted his apology, but thoughts on Renner were mixed. With one week left until its release, the ``Avengers'' might want to steer clear of controversy from here on out.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Geoffrey Lewis, a prolific character actor who appeared opposite frequent collaborator Clint Eastwood as his pal Orville Boggs in ``Every Which Way But Loose'' and its sequel, has died. He was 79. Lewis, the father of Oscar-nominated actress Juliette Lewis, died Tuesday, family friend Michael Henderson said. No other details were immediately available. Lewis began his long association with Eastwood in ``High Plains Drifter'' ( 1973 ). He also appeared with the actor in ``Thunderbolt and Lightfoot'' ( 1974 ), ``Bronco Billy'' ( 1980 ), ``Pink Cadillac'' ( 1989 ) and ``Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil'' ( 1997 ). Lewis scored a Golden Globe nomination for playing bartender Earl Tucker on the 1980s CBS sitcom ``Flo,'' the spinoff of ``Alice'' that starred Polly Holliday, and he had recurring roles on such series as ``Falcon Crest'' and the syndicated ``Land's End.''. Hollywood Reporter : ``Fast 8'' nowhere near starting line. Lewis portrayed real-life Prohibition-era gangster Harry Pierpont in ``Dillinger'' ( 1973 ), and his résumé also includes such notable films as ``The Great Waldo Pepper'' ( 1975 ), ``The Wind and the Lion'' ( 1975 ), ``Lucky Lady'' ( 1975 ), ``The Return of a Man Called Horse'' ( 1976 ), ``Heaven's Gate'' ( 1980 ), ``Catch Me If You Can'' ( 1989 ), ``The Lawnmower Man'' ( 1992 ), ``The Man Without a Face'' ( 1993 ), ``Maverick'' ( 1994 ) and ``The Devil's Rejects'' ( 2005 ). Hollywood Reporter : Acclaimed satirist Stan Freberg dies. The actor also stood out as a gravedigger turned vampire in the 1979 Tobe Hooper CBS miniseries ``Salem's Lot,'' an adaptation of the Stephen King novel. Lewis had appeared on such 1970s TV shows as ``Then Came Bronson,'' ``Bonanza'' and ``The Name of the Game'' before scoring a minor role as a cowhand in ``The Culpepper Cattle Co.'' ( 1972 ). Later, he showed up on such series as ``Mod Squad,'' ``The Waltons,'' ``Police Woman,'' ``Mork & Mindy,'' ``Lou Grant,'' ``Gun Shy,'' ``Magnum, P.I.'' and ``The X-Files.''. Lewis was a co-founder of the spoken-word performance group Celestial Navigations, working with musician and songwriter Geoff Levin. People we've lost in 2015. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Just weeks after Marvel's ``Daredevil'' premiered its first season on Netflix, the company confirmed Tuesday that a second season will be coming in 2016. The show focuses on attorney Matt Murdock ( played by Charlie Cox ), who was blinded as a child, as he fights injustice by day using the law. By night, he continues the fight, becoming the superhero Daredevil and using his powers to protect the New York neighborhood of Hell's Kitchen. It's gotten rave reviews. ``With tight adherence to its source material's history, high production quality, and a no-nonsense dramatic flair, Daredevil excels as an effective superhero origin story, a gritty procedural, and an exciting action adventure,'' says review site Rotten Tomatoes. Netflix's `Daredevil' has arrived : What's the verdict ?. A Marvel Television and ABC Studios production, the show also stars Rosario Dawson, Vincent D'Onofrio and Deborah Ann Woll. ``Daredevil'' is just one of four series that the Disney-owned Marvel has committed to airing on Netflix. Expect to see Avengers characters ``Jessica Jones,'' ``Iron Fist'' and ``Luke Cage'' in their own upcoming series, leading into ``The Defenders'' miniseries programming event.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Oscar-winning rapper-turned-actor Common has closed a deal to join the cast of ``Suicide Squad,'' Warner Bros.' all-star action movie featuring DC Entertainment super-villains. David Ayer is directing the feature, which already boasts actors Jared Leto as the Joker, Will Smith as Deadshot and Margot Robbie as Harley Quinn. Also in the lineup are Joel Kinnaman, Cara Delevingne, Viola David, Adam Beach, Ike Barinholtz, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje and Scott Eastwood. There will also possibly be cameos of Jesse Eisenberg who plays Lex Luthor and Ben Affleck as Batman in ``Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice,'' who are rumored to appear as Warners builds its own cinematic universe. Hollywood Reporter : `Suicide Squad' is `Dirty Dozen' with supervillains. The story tells of imprisoned villains recruited by a government agency to perform covert operations. Details for Common's role have not been revealed. Warners had no comment on the deal. The movie is in production in Toronto. Common is currently on screen with Warners' Liam Neeson thriller ``Run All Night'' and was part of the cast for acclaimed civil rights movie ``Selma.'' For the latter he won an Oscar for best original song, which he shared with John Legend. He is due to shoot Relativity's ``Hunter Killer'' with Gerard Butler in July. Hollywood Reporter : What happens when `Star Wars' is just a war film ?. He is repped by CAA and Myman Greenspan. Warner Bros. and DC Entertainment are both units of Time Warner, as is CNN. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) ``The Rocky Horror Picture Show'' is the latest musical getting the small-screen treatment. Fox is developing a two-hour remake of the 1975 cult classic to be directed, executive-produced and choreographed by Kenneth Ortega ( ``High School Musical'' ). The project, tentatively titled ``The Rocky Horror Picture Show Event,'' is casting-contingent. The special will be filmed in advance and not air live, but few details beyond that are known. In addition to Ortega, Gail Berman and Lou Adler, who produced the original film, are also attached as executive producers. The special will be produced by Fox 21 Television Studios, and Berman's The Jackal Group. The special is timed to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the film, which has grossed more than $ 112 million and still plays in theaters across the country. TV premiere dates : The complete guide. This isn't the first stab at adapting ``The Rocky Horror Picture Show.'' In 2002, Fox unveiled plans for an adaptation timed to the 30th anniversary that never came to fruition. The faces of pilot season 2015. Fox's ``Glee'' covered several of the show's most popular songs for a Season 2 episode and even released a special ``The Rocky Horror Glee Show'' EP. There is no plan yet for when the adaptation will air. Fox also has a live musical production of ``Grease'', starring Julianne Hough and Vanessa Hudgens, scheduled to air on Jan. 31, 2016. Broadcast TV scorecard. Following in the footsteps of ``The Sound of Music'' and ``Peter Pan,'' NBC recently announced plans to air a live version of The Wiz later this year. Ortega's credits include ``Gilmore Girls,'' ``This Is It'' and ``Hocus Pocus.'' He is repped by Paradigm and Hanson, Jacobson. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) With help from some filmmakers, 102-year-old Alice Barker went back in time. Barker was a dancer in such New York nightspots as the Cotton Club and the Cafe Zanzibar in the 1930s and 1940s, part of chorus lines that entertained alongside notables including Bill ``Bojangles'' Robinson and Frank Sinatra. There were motion pictures made of Barker, but she had never seen any of them. Moreover, her photographs and memorabilia had all been lost over the years. So she had never seen herself actually dancing -- until now. Mark Cantor of jazz-on-film. com and some volunteers put together a video of ``soundies'' -- early music videos -- and showed them to Barker at the nursing home where she lives. The ageless dancer was delighted. ``It's just fabulous,'' she said.
( CNN ) ``Sopranos'' theorists now have a little more to chew on. Show creator David Chase went through the famous final scene for DGA Quarterly and revealed the reasoning behind each shot. What he didn't reveal, however, was whether series protagonist Tony Soprano lives or dies. Chase's details are a master class on how to build tension in a seemingly nondescript situation, however. `Sopranos' ending ? Let it be. For those who don't recall the finale, which aired in June 2007, mobster Tony Soprano is meeting his family for dinner at Holsten's, a real-life diner and ice cream parlor in Bloomfield, New Jersey. He picks a song on the jukebox : Journey's ``Don't Stop Believin'.'' As the music plays, he waits in a booth, watching his wife and later his son come through the front door. His daughter is running late. It's a seemingly harmless get-together, one that could have happened any time in Tony's life, but it's fraught with tension, Chase observes. The Journey song ``starts to build and build into something'' ; a bell rings every time someone walks through the door, and Tony looks up each time. And then there's the man in the Members Only jacket who walks in just ahead of A.J., Tony's son. He could be anybody, but given Tony's life, he could a hitman assigned to kill Tony. ``The tension is quite high now, but if you think about it, for no real reason,'' Chase told DGA Quarterly. ``Who's in the place ? A guy in a jacket, Cub Scouts, a young couple, a trucker in a hat, a couple of black guys in there to buy some candy. There's no real reason for the tension to ratchet up. But it does. And that's what I love, how you make that.''. There are nods to other films, Chase observed. The way the scene is cut recalls the final bedroom scene of Stanley Kubrick's ``2001 : A Space Odyssey,'' with Tony seeing himself at the next spot in time. The Members Only guy going to the bathroom is a nod to the famous scene in ``The Godfather'' when Michael Corleone shoots Sollozzo and McCluskey. The scene ends, of course, with Tony looking up as Journey's Steve Perry sings ``Don't stop --'' and then a cut to black. The public reaction caught Chase by surprise. ``I thought the ending would be somewhat jarring, sure. But not to the extent it was, and not a subject of such discussion,'' he said. ``The biggest feeling I was going for, honestly, was don't stop believing.''. Still, if anybody is hoping that Chase reveals whether Tony survives, they'll have to keep digging. The end is deliberately uncertain and existential, Chase said. ``Whether this is the end here, or not, it's going to come at some point for the rest of us,'' he said. ``I'm not saying that ( he was killed ). But obviously he stood more of a chance of getting shot by a rival gang mob than you or I do because he put himself in that situation. ``All I know,'' he added, ``is the end is coming for all of us.''
( CNN ) An internal inquiry by the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office in 2009 concluded that Reserve Deputy Robert Bates was shown special treatment and that training policies were violated regarding his role with the agency. Bates is the volunteer deputy who fatally shot suspect Eric Harris instead of stunning him with a Taser on April 2. A Harris family lawyer provided documents to CNN from the 2009 inquiry, which also found that supervisors intimidated employees to disregard policies to the benefit of Bates. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office has not responded to repeated calls for comment from CNN. An attorney for Bates, Clark O. Brewster, told CNN's Anderson Cooper on Friday that he disputed the findings in the report and maintained that his client had the proper training. Bates, 73, is charged with second-degree manslaughter in the shooting of Harris. He pleaded not guilty. Bates was working as a reserve deputy for the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office on April 2 when he was involved the arrest of Harris in a weapons sting operation. Bates has said he meant to stun Harris with a Taser after the suspect fled from officers but mistakenly shot Harris with a gun instead. Bates has said the shooting was accidental. He has apologized to the Harris family, as has Sheriff Stanley Glanz. How easy is it to confuse a gun for a Taser ?. The attorney for the Harris family said that Bates wasn't qualified to be on the force, but received preferential treatment because he'd made donations to the agency and was a friend of the sheriff. The Tulsa World newspaper reported some supervisors in the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office were told to forge Bates' records and were reassigned when they refused. The sheriff's office denied the allegations in the newspaper's report. It also declined a CNN interview to respond to the claims. Over the weekend, one of Bates' attorneys released most of his training documents and said they prove Bates had proper law enforcement training. However, the records were incomplete. Bates' attorney, Brewster, characterized the 2009 memo as something borne out of jealousy by other officers. The allegations made in the report are the result of misunderstandings and misstatements, he said. The memos obtained by CNN show that a ``special investigation'' was launched in July 2009 at the request of then-Undersheriff Brian Edwards. Edwards asked investigators to look at two questions specifically : Was Bates being treated differently than any other reserve deputies, and were any employees pressured by supervisors to aid Bates ?. The investigation found that some employees felt pressured to sign off on certificates for training that Bates had not completed. Police caught on camera : The good and the bad. On Friday, the Tulsa County district attorney's office said it had received new information -- likely the 2009 memo -- that ``are worthy of further investigation beyond the scope of the manslaughter case.''. The DA's office is reaching out to independent law enforcement agencies to investigate further. Contrary to claims by the sheriff's office that Bates had the required training to be in the field, the 2009 memo indicates otherwise. The document names then-Chief Deputy Tim Albin ( currently undersheriff ) and then-Capt. Tom Huckeby ( now a major ) as two supervisors who allegedly pressured lower-ranking officers to make exceptions or falsify records for Bates. One deputy reported that he was tasked with providing field training for Bates. The written policy is that a reserve deputy is required to have 480 hours of training, but that Huckeby and Albin pressured the trainer to write that Bates was qualified after only 320 hours. The trainer, fearing reassignment if he did not comply, signed a memo stating that Bates had completed 328 hours of training, and did not elaborate on details of the training. Later, the memo was amended by his superiors to read, in part, that Bates was ``capable of performing the functions of a patrol deputy.'' The training deputy said he initialed the changes, even though he didn't think Bates was properly trained. According to the investigation memo, the trainer said that if he was honest, he would have said Bates needed remedial training, and that the reserve deputy was ``not really good at traffic stops or operations.''. The internal investigation only turned up 72 hours of documented training. The trainer maintained that he oversaw 328 hours of training, but that the records were sent not to the records office, but instead to Huckeby. Brewster denied the claims made by the trainer, and alleged that trainer lost his job in part because of his conduct during the internal inquiry. Another deputy said that she signed a driving certificate for Bates, even though she believed he had not completed the training. Albin asked the deputy to make the certificate, and she did so without questioning him, according to the investigation. The memo lists other instances where Bates performed operations that he wasn't supposed to, given his stature in the department, but that complaints by other officers were dismissed by supervisors. Those who complained about Bates, according to the memo, were told to leave him alone or to make an exception, citing that he did a lot of good for the county and was close with the top leaders in the agency.
( CNN ) Fifteen buffalo were shot and killed on Friday after a day on the loose in upstate New York. The chase, which took farmers and police officers from five jurisdictions through forests and over the Hudson River, ended with ``snipers'' from the animals' farm gunning down the buffalo from the side of the road, according to Lt. Thomas Heffernan of the Bethlehem Police Department. ``It was turning into the wild, wild, West,'' Albany County Sheriff Craig Apple told reporters on Friday. ``It was time to put an end to it.''. Heffernan described the hectic last moments of the chase :. ``They were setting up a perimeter around the animals in the secluded area, they got spooked and they charged through our guys,'' Heffernan said. The herd then stampeded across the interstate highway, breaking through a wire fence. ``Once they crossed over the freeway, that really escalated it,'' Heffernan said. ``There was no choice ; the animals had to be destroyed.''. The bull of the heard weighed over 1,300 pounds and a collision with a car could easily have been fatal, Heffernan said. New York State Police helicopters were called in and nearby school districts were alerted to keep all students inside, Heffernan said. Four men from GEM Farms in Schodack, New York, from where the buffalo escaped, were on the scene by a ravine in Coeymans, New York, to kill the animals, a decision Heffernan said wasn't made lightly, but that was necessary. George Mesick, the 87-year-old owner of the farm, sat in the car listening to the radio as his buffalo were shot. ``Very sad,'' Mesick said. ``I'm just so glad that they got them before somebody got hurt.''. Twenty-two buffalo escaped from the farm on Thursday -- half the farm's stock -- including six that were shot Thursday night in Rensselaer County, Mesick said. One buffalo calf was found dead on a road, hit, and not reported, by a driver, Mesick said. Mesick has been raising buffalo for their meat since 1973, he said, with no escape like this before. ``They love to roam,'' he said. ``They love to get in the big field and go like a son of a gun and that's what they did yesterday.''. The last buffalo were shot 20 miles from the farm, he said. The herd broke through three strands of high tensile barbed wire to escape the farm, and later swam across the Hudson River, according to Mesick, still surprised. ``They never even had a pond to swim across,'' Mesick said. ``I still can't believe it.''
( CNN ) The last three defendants prosecuted in the hazing death of Florida A&M drum major Robert Champion were convicted Friday of manslaughter and hazing with the result of death, reported CNN affiliate WFTV. A jury deliberated about 2 1/2 hours before returning guilty verdicts against Benjamin McNamee, 25 ; Aaron Golson, 22 ; and Darryl Cearnel, 28. They will be sentenced June 26, according to Orange County, Florida, online court records. Until then, they'll be held in the county jail. Champion, 26, died in November 2011 after a band hazing ritual in which he was beaten aboard a school bus after a football game in Orlando, Florida. The initiation required pledges to run down the center of the bus while being punched, kicked and assaulted by senior members, band members have said. A medical examiner ruled Champion's death a homicide and said he died within an hour of being beaten. Champion suffered multiple blunt trauma blows, the medical examiner said. A total of 15 defendants were charged originally, but most took plea deals, WFTV reported. Last October, Dante Martin stood trial and was convicted of the same charges. He was sentenced to 77 months in prison.
Hong Kong ( CNN ) Cathay Pacific was forced to cancel a scheduled flight from London to Hong Kong after one of the pilots was arrested after trying to board the airliner with knives in his luggage. The pilot, who has not been identified, was stopped during security checks as the flight prepared to depart on Saturday night, the Metropolitan Police said in a statement Monday. ``At around 21:10 hours police at Heathrow Airport were called to a staff search area. ``Officers attended and subsequently the member of flight crew, a man, was arrested on suspicion of possession of an offensive weapon in a public place and possession of a knife blade / sharp pointed article in a public place.''. He was then taken into custody at a local police station where he was later bailed and ordered to return in May pending an investigation, the police statement added. Cathay Pacific, which is headquartered in Hong Kong, told CNN in an email that it would cooperate with authorities, but that it was unable to provide further details as the incident is being investigated by police. It apologized to the 262 people on board Flight CX254, which eventually departed on Sunday, adding that it assisted passengers with overnight accommodation in London and alternative flight arrangements. Passengers were forced to wait in the seats on board the Boeing 777 for more than two hours before the service was canceled. ``They just told us there were crew issues. The captain said `apologies for everything that has happened'. He said they tried to get another pilot but they couldn't get there on time,'' one passenger on the flight told the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post.
( CNN ) Panic. Tears. Fear. All those feelings and more permeated cities, villages and camps around Nepal on Saturday, after a massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck around midday. Hours later, after a wave of relentless aftershocks, many people still were too scared to go back inside any buildings. Others crowded around rubble, including men and women racing to rescue those trapped. And then there are the hundreds already confirmed dead, not to mention the hundreds more who suffered injuries. Below are some accounts from witnesses in the mountainous Asian nation, in their own words. Fast Facts : Earthquakes. Anderson, an American who was in Nepal for trekking and meditation, was in his hotel room when the quake struck. ``I went outside five minutes after the major tremors stopped. I went to a parking lot nearby for one hour or so, then walked down the main road,'' he said. He took a series of photos on the main road between Thamal and Durbar Squares, that he shared via CNN iReport. Kumar posted a photo of people in his neighborhood sheltering in a makeshift tent after the quake. He sent updates via Twitter about what he was seeing in the Lalitpur District of Kathmandu. ``It's getting dark, no power and no water supply in Lalitpur area, but people are helping each other with food and other items. ``Almost everyone staying outside home.. Hard time for small kids & older people. ``People are very worried & are planning to stay out on the street overnight, but they lack sufficient food & water.''. Joshi is a UNICEF communication officer who was on the ground at the time of the quake. ``The shake was like nothing I have experienced in my 57 years. It was strong and it shook for a long time.''. Old monuments and temples fell, Joshi wrote of his experience. There were fears that other buildings would collapse. ``When I went out in the evening, I saw many people preparing to camp out in the main open parade ground in the middle of the street. Relatives were crying in the main government hospital where the dead were being lined up in front of the hospital building. ``My family is traumatised. We are 5 generations living under one roof -- from a 100 year old grandmother to my 16 month old granddaughter. Strong aftershocks are keeping most of us up !''. ``Some of the historical sites are completely devastated. ``Most of the people -- a lot of the people -- are walking through the city. They're confused and scared. A lot of people are crying. ``They're out with their pets and their families and a lot of locals are volunteering in rescue operations. ``In several parts of Kathmandu, a lot of people seem trapped under the rubble. Locals are trying to rescue these people because they can still hear them.''. Are you in Nepal or have loved ones affected ? Please share with us if you are in a safe place. ``We are scared and waiting for the tremors to end. We are all sitting outside because there is more news of another quake. ``There is no power and families are listening to the FM radio inside their cars. News of multiple building collapses. ``I've seen many cracked walls and roads and buildings. ``The Dharahara was packed with people a while ago. There are police everywhere trying to move rubble to make space on the roads for ambulances. Everyone is very scared.''. ``I see many cracked buildings and people are panicked and all running down to the streets. ``The main landmark in Kathmandu is a spire, Dharahara, and it has fallen down, it is about 140 feet high in the center city. ``Another aftershock is hitting now, it is really strong. ``Airplanes are circling now overhead and helicopters are flying and not clear if the airport is open. We hear it is damaged.''. How are earthquakes measured ?. ``Many historic buildings have collapsed in the city. ``In all my years I have never seen such a big earthquake here. ``There are sometimes small shaking, sometimes bigger but this is the worst and my home has been cracked and it is a relatively strong house.''. ``Around where I am, people are in open spaces. There have been several aftershocks, I think they're all waiting, hoping they know what to do. ``You can see glass walls, portions of buildings and cracks in the building. People are confused. they're staying out in the open.''. Can wild animals help us predict earthquakes ?. CNN's Mariano Castillo, Henry Hanks and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Korea's buddae-jjigae -- or ``army stew'' as it's often called -- dates back to the scarce years of the Korean War when local cooks had to get inventive with U.S. Army rations. While jiigae can refer to any variety of stews, this particular version just happens to feature a variety of canned, precooked meat, most notably SPAM in all its glazed and gelatinous glory. ``It's, in fact, a classic example of necessity being the mother of deliciousness,'' Anthony Bourdain says of the dish during the premiere episode of ``Parts Unknown'' on Sunday, April 26, at 9 p.m. ET/PT. The host of CNN's ``Parts Unknown'' recently stopped by Anderson Cooper's kitchen to cook up the spicy and funky stew, and talk about his 24 intoxicating hours in the country's capital of Seoul. So, it's probably a good thing budda-jiigae is also a storied hangover cure. Budae-jjigae. ( Serves 2-4 ). Courtesy of Choi Ji-hwang. Ingredients :. 1 12-oz can of Spam, cut into 1/2 - inch slices. 1 1/2 cups tong baechu kimchi, or traditional fermented cabbage ( can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store ). 8 oz. sliced Korean rice cakes ( can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store ). 1 white onion, thinly sliced. 2 spring onions, thinly sliced. 5 garlic cloves, crushed. 3 hot dogs, thinly sliced. 8 oz. ground pork. 3 tablespoons soy sauce. 2 tablespoons gochujang, or hot pepper paste ( can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store ). 3 tablespoons gochukaru, or hot pepper flakes ( can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store ). 3 tablespoons cheongju, or a clear rice wine similar to sake. 3 cups anchovy kelp broth ( recipe below ). 3 tablespoons baked beans. 1 1/2 cups water. 1 package ramen noodles ( just the noodles ). For the anchovy kelp broth :. 1 dried shiitake mushroom. 4 large dried anchovies, heads and guts removed, wrapped in cheesecloth. 1 5x3'' sheet of dried, edible kelp or kombu ( can be found in a well-stocked supermarket or Korean specialty store ). 4 cups water. 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cooking instructions :. 1. Place the ingredients for the anchovy broth in a pot and simmer for 20-30 minutes until the flavors are fully infused. Strain and set aside. 2. Place the Spam, kimchi, rice cakes, onions, garlic, hot dogs and ground pork in small separate piles in the bottom of a shallow pot. 3. Add the soy, gochujang, gochukaru and cheongju to the pot and slowly pour the anchovy kelp broth in. Put the baked beans on top and add the water. Place pot over high heat and bring contents to a steady simmer. 4. Cook for 5-10 minutes, then add the ramen noodles. Ladle broth over the noodles to help them break apart. Continue to cook for 2-3 minutes until noodles are just about cooked through, but definitely still chewy. Serve with steamed rice or enjoy on its own.
( CNN ) A Transportation Security Administration committee concluded that full screening of airport employees nationwide would not lower the overall risk to the public, according to a report released Monday. The report by the TSA's Aviation Security Advisory Committee said that full employee screening would not ``appreciably increase the overall system-wide protection.''. Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. Full physical screening of employees also ``is incapable of determining a person's motivations, attitudes and capabilities to cause harm, among other limitations.''. ``No single measure can provide broad-spectrum protection against risks or adversaries,'' the report said. ``Therefore, risk-based, multi-layered security offers the greatest ability to mitigate risks through the application of flexible and unpredictable measures to protect commercial aviation.''. The TSA and most airports could not afford 100 % employee screening, the report said. Only two major airports in the U.S. -- Miami and Orlando -- require employees to be screened through metal detectors, a CNN investigation found earlier this year. As a result of the report, TSA Secretary Jeh Johnson announced immediate actions, including criminal background checks every two years for all airport aviation workers, screening of airline and airport employees traveling as passengers, reduction of access points to secure areas at all airports and increased random screening of aviation employees. Johnson requested the TSA study after a Delta Air Lines ramp worker and passenger at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport were arrested in December for allegedly smuggling guns onto flights to New York. Since the incident, the airport has hired private security to check the bags of employees when they show up for work and has increased overall security. ``Immediately following the incident in December 2014, TSA increased the random and unpredictable screening of aviation workers at various airport access points to mitigate potential security vulnerabilities,'' Johnson said in a statement. Sen. Charles Schumer called Johnson's announcement ``a prompt response and a significant first step to closing the gaping loopholes in airport security, especially with regard to reducing access points and enhancing criminal background checks.''. Specifically, the TSA report said employee vetting should be strengthened by ``updating the list of disqualifying criminal offenses, instituting continuous activity monitoring through the inclusion of additional Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) and DHS data sources, and maintaining a national database of airport employees whose credentials have been revoked for cause.''. In addition, the TSA should expand the collection of domestic intelligence, which would include monitoring social media, and expand national reward programs to encourage employees to report security issues, the report said. ``Although there is no perfect security system, the multiple layers -- which can be routinely enhanced or modified -- provide an effective means to secure passengers, employees and facilities,'' the report said. It also recommended increased surveillance of employees who work inside baggage rooms and cargo areas. CNN revealed this month that passengers filed 30,621 claims from 2010 to 2014 for valuables that were missing from luggage. The TSA report agreed with a 2008 Homeland Security study that found random screening was more cost-effective than mandatory airport employee screening. The committee that conducted the TSA study consisted of representatives from the TSA, airports, airlines, airline pilots, aviation security and law enforcement. Rep. John Katko, R-New York and chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, said, ``As threats to aviation security continue to evolve, it is critical that the Transportation Security Administration, as well as the airport community, are adequately prepared to mitigate insider threats. I look forward to having a meaningful dialogue with airport stakeholders and the TSA on what can be done, going forward, to improve employee vetting and screening for those with access to sensitive and sterile parts of airports.''. Rep. Kathleen Rice, D-New York, a ranking member of the Transportation Security Committee, said the report makes it clear that the ``TSA must do more to neutralize the insider threat and prevent security breaches like we saw in December.''. ``Screening every single employee may not be a cure-all solution, but every single employee should come to work every day with reason to expect that they'll face random screening and inspections,'' she said. Lauren Stover, security director at Miami International Airport, told CNN, ``We support the findings of the committee and agree that there is no single solution in mitigating the insider threat, however we will continue our employee screening program as we believe that physical screening is a critical component to a layered security program.''. CNN's Curt Devine contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Americans on the United States' no-fly list will now be privy to information about why they have been banned from commercial flights and be given the opportunity to dispute their status, according to court documents filed by the Justice Department this week. The revised policy comes in response to a June ruling by a federal judge that said the old process was in violation of the Fifth Amendment's guarantee of due process. The decision was part of an American Civil Liberties Union lawsuit brought on behalf of 13 Americans on the list. But the ACLU isn't satisfied with the government's new policy, outlined in documents filed Monday in federal courts in Oregon ( PDF ) and Virginia ( PDF ). ``After years of fighting in court for complete secrecy and losing, it's good that the government is finally now going to tell people of their status on the No Fly List,'' said Hina Shamsi, director of the ACLU National Security Project and the lead attorney on the case, in a statement. ``Unfortunately, we've found that the government's new redress process falls far short of constitutional requirements because it denies our clients meaningful notice, evidence, and a hearing. The government had an opportunity to come up with a fair process but failed, so we're challenging it in court again.''. People on the no-fly list, managed by the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center, are prohibited from boarding a commercial flight for travel into or out of the United States. The number of people on the list is classified. An official with knowledge of the government's figures told CNN in 2012 that the list contained about 21,000 names, including about 500 Americans. Before the change, American citizens and permanent residents who inquired with the government about being denied aircraft boarding received a letter that neither confirmed nor denied their inclusion on the no-fly list. Now, they'll be made aware of their status if they apply for redress, with an option to request further information. ``The U.S. government is making enhancements to the Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program ( DHS TRIP ) to provide additional transparency and process for U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents who have been denied boarding on a commercial aircraft because they are on the No Fly List,'' the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement. In cases in which travelers included on the list request to receive or submit more information about their status, the government will provide a second, more detailed response, identifying ``specific criterion under which the individual has been placed on the No Fly List,'' according to the court documents. An unclassified summary of that information will be provided ``to the extent feasible, consistent with the national security and law enforcement interests at stake,'' court papers said. Those who appear on the no-fly list will then have further opportunity to dispute their status in writing, with supporting materials or exhibits, and will receive a final written decision from the Transportation Security Administration. The 2014 ruling that prompted the policy changes had called for passengers on the list to be given the opportunity to dispute their status before a judge.
( CNN ) You probably never knew her name, but you were familiar with her work. Betty Whitehead Willis, the designer of the iconic ``Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas'' sign, died over the weekend. She was 91. Willis played a major role in creating some of the most memorable neon work in the city. The Neon Museum also credits her with designing the signs for Moulin Rouge Hotel and Blue Angel Motel. Willis visited the Neon Museum in 2013 to celebrate her 90th birthday. Born about 50 miles outside of Las Vegas in Overton, she attended art school in Pasadena, California, before returning home. She retired at age 77. Willis never trademarked her most-famous work, calling it ``my gift to the city.''. Today it can be found on everything from T-shirts to refrigerator magnets. People we've lost in 2015.
( CNN ) It was a busy week for trending stories. If you weren't online much, here's some of the best of what you missed :. After the New York area received a large amount of rain, four rainbows appeared to stretch across the early morning sky on Tuesday. Amanda Curtis, CEO of a fashion company, snapped the lucky shot. In rural China, hiring exotic dancers to perform at wakes is an increasingly common practice. Until now. Families will have to find a new way to cheer up mourners, because the strippers are the latest focus of the country's crackdown on vice. RDJ grew increasingly agitated as a Channel 4 interviewer from the UK asked about his private life on Tuesday. Oh, those Kardashians. They seem to spawn a new trend every other week. The latest : Lip plumping. By sucking on a jar. To look like Kylie Jenner. Seriously. It even has a hashtag : #KylieJennerChallenge. With help from some filmmakers, 102-year-old Alice Barker went back in time. A prom-posal that referenced bombs ? One school wouldn't have it, but the prom-poser accuses administrators of racism. Ewan McGregor to play Lumiere in `Beauty and the Beast'. This cast continues to draw lots of interest on social media. Johnny Depp is nearly unrecognizable in the `Black Mass' trailer. This chameleon strikes again. Here's one way to announce you're pregnant : reference ``The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.''. And a military dad photobombs his son ? Kudos for originality this week.
( CNN ) Anthony Doerr's ``All the Light We Can not See,'' a novel centered on the World War II bombing of St.-Malo, France, and two characters on opposite sides of the war, won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction Monday. Doerr's novel had received rave reviews upon its release last spring. ``I must blame Anthony Doerr for lost sleep, because once I started reading his new novel, `All the Light We Can not See,' there was no putting it down,'' wrote William T. Vollmann in The New York Times Book Review. Doerr's work was also a finalist for the National Book Award. It's his second novel and fourth work of fiction, including two short story collections. 2015 Pulitzer Prize winners in journalism named. ``Between Riverside and Crazy,'' a play by Stephen Adly Guirgis, won the Pulitzer for drama. An earlier Guirgis work, ``The Motherf ***** with the Hat,'' ran on Broadway in 2011. Elizabeth Kolbert's ``The Sixth Extinction : An Unnatural History'' won the Pulitzer for general nonfiction. Kolbert, a New Yorker staff writer, tackles the idea that we're at the beginning of another mass die-off. ``As the planet warms up, and carbon dioxide acidifies the oceans, all bets are off -- except the ones hinging on mass extinctions,'' wrote Nicholas Lazard in The Guardian. Despite that prospect, he added, ``Kolbert's book is not, thankfully, as depressing as you might think. She has a good grip on her subject and uses a light touch when it is most needed.''. Other winners in arts and letters categories include ``Encounters at the Heart of the World : A History of the Mandan People'' by Elizabeth A. Fenn ( history ) ; ``The Pope and Mussolini : The Secret History of Pius XI and the Rise of Fascism in Europe'' by David I. Kertzer ( biography/autobiography ) ; ``Anthracite Fields'' by Julia Wolfe ( music ) ; and ``Digest'' by Gregory Pardlo ( poetry ). The Pulitzer Prizes are administered by Columbia University and are considered some of the most prestigious honors in journalism and literature.
( CNN ) When Melissa Atkins Wardy, author of ``Redefining Girly'' and a passionate advocate for fighting gender stereotypes, heard from a frustrated mom on Facebook, she knew she needed to do something. So she shared the mom's story. In a blog post, Wardy told how the mom, Veronica of Richland, Washington, wanted to buy ``Big Hero 6'' fabric to make pillows for her two children. The problem ? The fabric didn't include two of the heroes from the movie : the female characters, Honey Lemon and GoGo. So Veronica decided to send an email to Springs Creative, the company that makes the fabric, saying that as a woman and an engineer, she was offended. She got an answer from the company but it didn't help. Girl empowerment ads like GoldieBlox : Do they work ?. A licensing manager for Springs Creative responded that the company has found that boys don't want girl characters on their things. ``Eeeww girls ! Yuck ! Haha,'' the licensing manager wrote. It will come as no surprise that Veronica was none too pleased to receive that response. ``I was frustrated and disgusted that a manager, and a female manager too, would laugh off my initial contact with the company. It was unprofessional. So I responded,'' Veronica told CNN. She asked that we not use her last name, in order to maintain her privacy. In an email back to the company, Veronica wrote, ``By eliminating the women in your fabric design, you are telling boys that it's OK to think girls are yucky, unworthy and less than a boy. ``You are also telling girls they are unworthy, unwanted and that it's un-cool to be smart and confident.''. What happened next shows that parents, aided by social media outrage, may have more leverage to combat gender stereotyping in our culture than they realize. And the ``Big Hero 6'' example -- along with a similar recent one involving TOMS, the shoes retailer -- suggests that manufacturers may be finally getting it, too. First, the rest of the story about Springs Creative and the ``Big Hero'' fabric : After sharing Veronica's story with her readers and her 6,700 Twitter followers, Wardy encouraged people to give Springs Creative a piece of their mind. She also invited them to tweet their own stories with the hashtag #IncludeTheGirls. Women responded in droves, pointing out how Black Widow, the female character in the popular ``Avengers'' superhero movie franchise, is often excluded from merchandise and how cereal boxes rarely include female characters. ``This sends the direct message to both boys and girls that females are forgettable, unimportant, undesirable. What a horrible thing to teach our children !'' said Wardy, who is also the founder and chief executive officer of Pigtail Pals & Ballcap Buddies, a company that makes empowering clothing for boys and girls. ``The prevailing theory is, 1. boys are the default audience, and 2. boys won't want an item with a girl on it,'' Wardy said. ``Yet, I talk with thousands of parents every week who say otherwise.''. Why trying to make our kids happy can backfire. Those parents are clearly making their voices heard. Because not too long after Veronica received her initial response from Springs Creative, Wardy said she got a call from the company, asking her to post a statement from Springs Creative on her site. ``It is sometimes difficult to hear negative feedback but the message was clear and we intend to act upon your message,'' the statement read. ``Most importantly, Springs Creative does not condone sexism in any shape or form and does not design products to shine a negative light on females OR males.''. The company said it would be talking with Disney ``immediately'' about additional designs for ``Big Hero 6'' that would incorporate all the characters. ``We would never intentionally offend any segment of the population. We are a strong company with positive morals and values and we respect and see both genders equally,'' said the statement. Springs Creative told CNN it would have no further comment. Veronica said she was surprised the company responded so quickly. ``I do not believe this would have happened without the Pigtail Pals and Ballcap Buddies community also raising their voices.''. The real March Madness : When will women's teams get equal buzz ?. Around the same time, Wardy heard from another follower about an issue with TOMS and wrote about it on her site. On the normally progressive retailer's Web landing page for kids were photos that some parents felt played into gender stereotypes. One photo suggested ``Playtime Approved'' shoes for boys, and the other, this one on a pink background, included the caption ``Little Ladies : adorn their feet for spring.''. ``Really, TOMS ? Girls are not ornaments we adorn. Girls play, too !'' Wardy wrote on her Facebook page. Two hours later, Wardy received a comment from TOMS on her Facebook page, saying that the company completely agrees and that the wording has been changed to now say ``new arrivals for kids.''. ``We're really grateful whenever our community brings something like this to our attention,'' said Doug Piwinski, senior vice president, global marketing and communications for TOMS. ``Perhaps as much or more than any other brand, I mean we really listen to our customers in our community.''. So, here's my question : Are the two speedy responses from companies after women spoke out on social media more a sign that companies are truly getting it about gender stereotypes and girl and boy empowerment, or more a sign of the power of parents ? Or are they a mixture of both ?. How to Super Bowl #LikeAGirl. Wardy said there's no doubt that companies are in business to protect their bottom line, and that will always be a motivator. But she said these back-to-back incidents show what can happen when parents make it clear they won't buy products from companies that sell gender stereotypes. '' `Be not silent' is my mantra. Speak up !'' Wardy said. ``The success with Springs Creative and TOMS and other wins we've had in the past is an example of the power of parents ( moms and dads ) and children's advocates aggregating their voices to say, `Enough is enough.'''. Veronica said it's a sign of the power of parents becoming ``more aware, reactive and using social media to make their voices heard by companies that market to children.''. She added, ``One voice can be dismissed ; the hailstorm of voices collectively can not be ignored so easily.''. It is clear, from these two examples, that parents using their voices online and with their wallets can encourage companies to change. There's no question that raising awareness about stereotypes helps, said Wardy. ``If companies aren't paying attention by now, they most certainly should be.''. Pink, princess-y and sexy too soon. Do you think more companies are getting the message to include girl characters on merchandise ? Share your thoughts with Kelly Wallace on Twitter or CNN Living on Facebook.
( CNN ) This is week three of an ongoing series : A Catholic Reads the Bible. Read week one and week two. When I started this project, my brother texted me, ``Wait until you get to Lot.''. By Sunday afternoon, I understood what he meant. I am horrified by the story of Lot in Genesis. Lot and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah was new to me. I actually hadn't put two and two together that Sodom is the origin of the word sodomy. ( Feel free to call me dense as you read this ). Lot is the central character in the grim story of Sodom and Gomorrah's demise in Chapter 19. You are introduced to the city by Abraham who tries to save the town. In the preceding chapter, Abraham asks God to agree that if he can find 10 good people in the town, God won't smite it. God agrees. Lot is visited by divine emissaries to investigate if there are indeed enough good people to save the town. The men of the town come to seek out the new visitors for ``intimacies.'' Ahem. Yeah. Hospitable bunch, huh ? Those ``intimacies,'' we are meant to understand, account for Sodom's wickedness. And I guess meant that the town was doomed. ( ``Intimacies'' is the term used in my 1991 edition of the New American Bible. The revised edition refers to ``sexual relations.'' ). To protect the emissaries from the mob, Lot offers up his virginal daughters. Which. Ugh. Anyway, it doesn't work. There apparently aren't enough good men to save Sodom, which leads to God destroying yet another population in Genesis. Oh, and while Lot's chosen family members flee the destruction, Lot's wife turns around and is turned to salt. She had been warned not to look back. After God destroys Sodom, Lot's daughters worry that there aren't any men left, so they get their father good and drunk and have sex with him. They need to have children to keep the human race going, the logic goes, I guess. After reading that section, I put my Bible down. I couldn't read anymore. Then I read it again. What was I reading ? What are the morals, the meaning, I'm supposed to get from these ghastly stories ?. This is not the God that I have known for nearly 42 years. It's not the version of the God I pray to daily. I truly don't believe in a God that wipes out a town in general because of sexuality. Why are they wicked ? I don't believe that my God that would go after one group -- any group. The God that I pray to doesn't punish the ``wicked'' like this. I can't comprehend this version of God. I can't believe in that kind of God. There were much easier things to write about this week in the pages that I read. But, I want to be truthful with you, my readers. The Lot story struck me -- hard. I wish that I had answers for you as to why this happened or how it was written many years ago. But I don't. It could be that it was a tale told to make sure that people only had sex to have children. Or it could be a morality tale for the times. The truth is : I don't really know. I just know that my faith doesn't include the idea of such a punitive God. I now fully understand how you could devote your life to reading and analyzing the Bible. And when I read this rough draft to my brother, he said to me, ``You have just hit the tip of the iceberg.''. So, I will continue reading.
( CNN ) My name is Mark Goodacre, and I am a professor of New Testament and Christian origins in the Department of Religious Studies at Duke University. I was series adviser and one of many on-camera experts on CNN's ``Finding Jesus.'' I also appeared in each episode of the program. Viewers were invited to tweet and post their questions on the ``Finding Jesus'' Facebook page during the season finale about Mary Magdalene. Below are some of the most interesting, and my answers to them. They have been edited for style and clarity for this article :. Anarie Kennedy : The copy we have of the Gospel of Mary Magdalene comes from the second century, but is it possible that the gospel itself could be older ( like first century ) ?. Goodacre : Actually, the copy we saw in the show dates from the fifth century. It is currently located in Berlin, Germany. Although it's our most complete manuscript, it is missing several pages. There are two other fragments of the Gospel of Mary, both in Greek, and both dating from the third century. It is difficult to date the Gospel itself. One of the difficulties is that there are no references to it at all in antiquity. Our best guess is that it was written at some point in the middle to late second century. Gustavo Odría : Where can we get a good translation of the Gospel of Mary Magdalene ?. Goodacre : There are several good translations of the Gospel of Mary. One suggestion is Karen King's ``The Gospel of Mary of Magdala : Jesus and the First Woman Apostle.'' That book also has good introduction and discussion materials. One thing that is worth adding is that the Gospel is not actually called ``The Gospel of Mary Magdalene.'' The term ``Magdalene'' does not come at all in the texts we have of the Gospel. The heroine is simply called ``Mary.''. Edward James Reeves : I would like to know what really happened to Mary Magdalene ? Where did she go ? Who last saw her ?. Goodacre : This is one of the great mysteries about the character ! She is so prominent at the end of each of the canonical Gospels, and the reader is expecting to see more of her and to hear more about her in the rest of the New Testament, but there is nothing. She is not mentioned in Acts of the Apostles, or in Paul's letters, or anywhere else. One possibility is that the early church suppressed her memory and chose not to tell the story of this famous female apostle. But if that is the case, it is surprising that the Gospel writers pay so much attention to her in their Passion and Resurrection narratives. Another possibility, and we touched on this in the episode, is that Mary died not long after the events narrated in the Gospels. Perhaps she was a wealthy, elderly widow ?. @turnbullteacher : Wouldn't Church Fathers writing in the second century have written if Jesus was married or not ?. Goodacre : That's a good question. There is actually nothing in second century writers that says that Jesus was married and Clement of Alexandria ( died 215 AD ) takes for granted that Jesus was not married. When the ``Gospel of Jesus' Wife'' was published in 2012, it was at first thought that this might witness to a tradition of Jesus being married from as early as the second century, but it is now clear that the fragment is a modern forgery. @anna585858 : Do you think Magdalene is a nickname or reference to Mary's hometown ?. Goodacre : It's a good guess that ``Magdalene'' refers to Magdala, and so her name would refer to her hometown, just as Jesus the ``Nazarene'' is from Nazareth. There are other characters in the New Testament who are identified by their hometowns. For example Simon of Cyrene and Joseph of Arimathea. You are right, though, that it could be a nickname and that it might not have anything to do with Magdala. @AllSaintsRadio : Why was the Gospel of Mary Magdalene left out of the canon of 66 Biblical Books ?. Goodacre : This is a tough one because it is not clear that it was ever in contention. The Gospel of Mary is not even mentioned in any of the extant lists of early Christian works. But in any case, the book was probably written too late to have had a chance of competing with Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, all of which are written by the end of the first or, at the latest, the beginning of the second century. Further, the Gospel of Mary's theology is different from the theology of what became the four canonical Gospels. @StephanoleDReed : Where is it ( said ) that Jesus had a wife ?. Goodacre : There are no ancient texts in which Jesus had a wife. The closest we get to the idea is the Gospel of Philip in which Mary Magdalene is described as Jesus' ``companion,'' one of three women who always ``walked with the Lord.'' The same Gospel says that Jesus used to kiss her often, but we don't know whereabouts he kissed her because there is a hole in the manuscript at just that point ! However, the Gospel of Philip is probably too late ( late second to mid-third century ) to be able to tell us anything reliable about the historical Mary Magdalene. Funding Jesus : Who bankrolled Christ's ministry ?. I would like to thank everyone for their great questions over the last six weeks. Sorry that fellow on-camera expert Candida Moss and I could not get to all of them. Thanks too for all the encouraging words about ``Finding Jesus.'' We are pleased that so many of you have enjoyed and profited from watching it. If you would like to explore these issues in more detail, perhaps I might recommend my podcast, the NT Pod, which you can find on iTunes or at http://podacre.blogspot.com.
( CNN ) Fast-food outlet Burger King will sponsor the wedding of an Illinois couple. Not just any couple -- these are the nuptials of Joel Burger and Ashley King. They accepted the restaurant chain's offer to pay for their July affair on Monday. ``We are very appreciative of Burger King and can't thank them enough for their generosity !'' said King. It all started after their engagement in October. The couple had a little fun with the name coincidence and posed by a Burger King restaurant sign for a photo. They were interviewed by reporter Dave Bakke of the State Journal-Register in Springfield, the state capital. Burger King got wind of the article and was immediately interested in the happy couple, tweeting for help to locate them. They were invited on Skype on Monday to learn of a surprise : Burger King will pay for their whole wedding. ``We were shocked ( and still are ),'' said King. The fast food romance was many years in the making. Burger, now 24, and King, 23, met in kindergarten and grew up together in New Berlin. In fifth grade, classmates Joel Burger and Ashley King were asked to stand as student council representatives during an assembly with a motivational speaker. ``He said our names to the school,'' King told CNN, ``and then laughed and pronounced that together we were Burger King.''. The motivational speaker wasn't too far off -- a merger was in the works. The two became friends by high school, then dated in college. When the time came to propose, ``Joel took me out on his boat to go fishing, and he popped the question while we were on the water.''. Burger King's message for the happy couple : ``Congratulations, Joel and Ashley on falling in love your way.''
( CNN ) Actress Mindy Kaling's brother says that he posed as a black man years ago to get into medical school and that the experience opened his eyes to what he calls the hypocrisy of affirmative action. The revelation comes as Vijay Chokal-Ingam, who is of Indian descent, is pitching a book about his experiences as a ``hard-partying college frat boy who discovered the seriousness and complexity of America's racial problems while posing as a black man.''. On his website, AlmostBlack.com, Chokal-Ingam says he hatched the plan in 1998 after realizing in college that his grades weren't going to be good enough to get into med school as an Indian-American. ``So, I shaved my head, trimmed my long Indian eyelashes, and applied to medical school as a black man,'' he wrote on the website. ``My change in appearance was so startling that my own fraternity brothers didn't recognize me at first.''. He says he joined an organization for black students and applied to schools using his middle name, JoJo. The plan had some drawbacks, said Chokal-Ingam, who describes himself now as a ``professional resume writer, interview coach, and graduate school application consultant.''. ``Cops harassed me. Store clerks accused me of shoplifting. Women were either scared of me or couldn't keep their hands off me,'' he wrote. ``What started as a devious ploy to gain admission to medical school turned into a twisted social experiment.''. He says it worked. Despite a relatively mediocre 3.1 college grade-point average and a good-but-not-great score of 31 on the Medical College Admission Test, Chokal-Ingam claims he was wooed by several top medical schools. He even posts documents on his website to bolster his claims, including an enthusiastic letter from a dean at the Emory University School of Medicine congratulating him on his ``excellent scores'' on the MCAT. But there's little evidence to suggest his posturing as a ``black'' applicant helped him get into these schools. First, there is no point of comparison : Chokal-Ingam never applied to medical schools as an Indian-American. Ultimately, he told CNN he applied at 22 medical schools and interviewed at 11. He was wait-listed at four schools and got into only one. Chokal-Ingam eventually attended Saint Louis University Medical School, dropping out after two years. Affirmative action has been in the news a lot the past few years, with a 2013 Supreme Court ruling that tightened how affirmative action admissions programs have to be structured and a 2014 ruling that upheld the University of Michigan's ban on the use of race in admissions. Chokal-Ingam says his story shows how affirmative action ``destroys the dreams of millions of Indian-American, Asian American, and white applicants for employment and higher education.''. ``It also creates negative stereotypes about the academic abilities and professional skills of African-American and Hispanic professionals, who don't need special assistance in order to compete with other minority groups,'' he wrote. But a Saint Louis University spokeswoman disputed the account, telling the Huffington Post that race never played a role in Chokal-Ingam's admission. ``His MCAT scores and science grade point average met SLU's criteria for admission at that time, and his race or ethnicity did not factor into his acceptance into the University,'' the website quoted SLU spokeswoman Nancy Solomon as saying. As might be expected, Chokal-Ingam's claim hasn't gone over well in some quarters. ``How does @VijayIngam disprove the benefits of #affirmativeaction when he never gained admission to SLU based on it ?'' one Twitter user asked. Some were more blunt. One said Chokal-Ingam ``is an idiot.''. ``Whatever you feel about affirmative action, let's consider that one person's experience over a decade and a half ago -- an experience that ultimately didn't yield any deluge in acceptance letters anyway -- is not really indicative of the current state of college admissions,'' wrote Salon's Mary Elizabeth Williams. ``Nor is it necessarily an exemplary window into the complex and mysterious vetting process of elite institutions,'' she added. ``Instead, Chokal-Ingam's story is one of a successful woman's brother liberally using her name to drum up attention and controversy.''. Chokal-Ingam's sister, formerly of ``The Office'' and current star of TV's ``The Mindy Project,'' is among those who aren't on board, he wrote on his website. She ``strongly disapproves of my book,'' he wrote, arguing that it will bring shame on the family. But others said they don't see what all the fuss is about. ``I don't blame this guy at all he earned the right to get into that school via hardwork and wasn't getting it and felt like others were getting what he wanted to so he did what he had to,'' Twitter user josephdiano77 said.
( CNN ) The overturned convertible was smoldering, when police pulled up to it on a New Jersey roadway. The driver was pinned inside -- and unconscious. Not knowing when the car might burst into full flame, they scrambled to save her, while a police dash cam rolled. CNN obtained the footage from affiliate WPIX. Kinnelon Police Officers Mark Ehrenburg and Ricky Ferriola cut the seat belt from her, then dragged the woman's limp body away from the crash to start emergency medical care. Not a minute later, flames licked out of the car. Two more minutes -- an explosion. All three were lucky to escape the flames. The rescue started when someone reported an erratic driver on Thursday, and the officers sped off to investigate. When they pulled up at the scene, the 2006 Toyota Solara convertible was already a smoking wreck. Its horn was blaring. The officers ran over to the flipped over car, and shouted over the honking horn at the driver, ``Can you hear me ?'' No response, not even a gesture, the video showed. It took them two minutes to cut off the seat belt, as smoke kept rising. Once they had her in safety, the officers hooked the driver up to a defibrillator and started CPR. The woman, identified by the Kinnelon Police Department as Dawn Milosky, 45, of Beachwood, New Jersey, was airlifted to Morristown Medical Center and survived. She's been charged with driving while intoxicated, having an open container of alcohol in the vehicle, reckless driving and with failure to stay in her lane, according to WPIX. Kinnelon Police Sgt. Chris Carbone told WPIX that they released the video to show that the driver may have died, if others had not informed the police. As for his colleagues' bravery, he said, ``A lot of times, we don't think of our own safety doing this job.''. CNN's Ben Brumfield and Jackie Castillo contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) This week is the 100th anniversary of what many historians acknowledge as the Armenian genocide -- the Turkish massacre of an estimated 1.5 million Armenians. And it's also the seventh year in a row President Barack Obama has broken his promise to use the word ``genocide'' to describe the atrocity. It's a moral position taken by Pope Francis, actor George Clooney and even by the Kardashians. On the 2008 campaign trail, Obama promised to use the word ``genocide'' to describe the 1915 massacre by Turks of Armenians -- a pledge he made when seeking Armenian-American votes. Back then, he held up his willingness to call it a ``genocide'' as an example of why he was the kind of truth-telling candidate the nation needed. 8 things to know about the mass killings of Armenians 100 years ago. In 2006, after the U.S. Ambassador to Armenia was asked to resign for using the term Armenian genocide, then-Sen. Obama hammered the Bush administration for not taking a stand. ``The Armenian genocide is not an allegation, a personal opinion, or a point of view, but rather a widely documented fact supported by an overwhelming body of historical evidence,'' he said. But that was then. And now, as was the case with Bush, Obama regards Turkey -- the only Muslim majority country in NATO -- as a more crucial ally than Armenia. Turkey has the second-largest military in NATO, behind only the U.S., and is a crucial ally when it comes to Syria, ISIS, Iran and other Middle East issues. And Turkey denies this history. ``We can not define what happened in 1915 as a genocide,'' Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told CNN on Tuesday. Why Turkey won't say the G-word when it comes to the Armenians. In her Pulitzer Prize-winning book about genocide, Obama's current Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power hammered U.S. policy makers for not acknowledging or acting to stop such atrocities. ``No U.S. president has ever made genocide prevention a priority, and no U.S. president has ever suffered politically for his indifference to its occurrence. It is thus no coincidence that genocide rages on,'' she wrote.
( CNN ) We're 2 degrees from a different world. Humans never have lived on a planet that's 2 degrees Celsius ( 3.6 Fahrenheit ) warmer than it was before we started burning fossil fuels, in the late 1800s, and climate experts say we risk fundamentally changing life on this planet if we do cross that 2-degree mark. ``This is gambling with the planet,'' said Gernot Wagner, the lead senior economist at the Environmental Defense Fund and co-author of the book ``Climate Shock.''. Think super droughts, rising seas and mass extinctions. Yet for all of its importance, I don't think the 2-degree threshold is as famous as it should be. I've heard it referred to as the ``north star'' for climate negotiations. Meaning : This one little number carries huge importance as a way to focus the world's attention. It's so significant that it's going to be the subject of my reporting for the rest of the year. I'm calling that effort ``2 degrees,'' and I need your help to make it work. Until 5 p.m. ET Monday, you can vote on the first story I'll report for the series. Vote using the Facebook poll below ( or go here if you don't see it. ). Tell CNN's John Sutter which of these climate change stories you like best - and he'll report on the winner. This poll closes Monday, April 27, at 5pm ET. # 2degrees. All of those story ideas came from you, by the way. They focus on what a 2-degree world might look like. CNN kicked off this effort with a Facebook chat last week. We asked for your questions about climate change and about the 2-degree threshold, specifically. I don't have all the answers right now. We'll continue to explore the importance of this number together. But below you'll find quick responses to seven basic questions about this crucial number. Many of them come straight from you, the readers. And I tossed in a couple of my own. If you'd like to follow this project as it evolves, I'd encourage you to sign up for the ``2 degrees'' newsletter. And feel free to ask more questions in the comments section below. They'll shape the way I spend the rest of the year reporting on this super-critical number. One guy, it turns out. William Nordhaus, an economist at Yale. Nordhaus, 73, proposed the 2-degree threshold in a 1977 ( 1977 ! ) paper titled ``Economic Growth and Climate : The Carbon Dioxide Problem.''. The estimate was ``crude, but it was a reasonable first start,'' he told me. ``If there were global temperatures more than 2 or 3 degrees above the current average temperature, this would take the climate outside of the range of observations which have been made over the last several hundred thousand years,'' he wrote in ``The Climate Casino.''. A growing body of research now supports the idea. Science has continued to raise red flags about 2 degrees of warming. And that work has led policy experts to conclude that a 2-degree world is something none of us should want. ``You need a judgment call for these things,'' said Carlo Jaeger, chair of the Global Climate Forum, who has written on the history of 2 degrees Celsius. ``And this 2-degree thing was a judgment call that happened at the interface of science and policy.''. Germany was first to push 2 degrees as an policy goal, Jaeger told me. That happened in the 1990s. Later came the European Commission, the G8, the U.S. National Academy of Sciences and, most significantly, the Copenhagen Accord, which was signed by more than 100 nations who agreed 2 degrees would be too much. The United States was among the signatories. I'm going to spend the month of May exploring this question, so look for more on this. But here are some striking facts about what scientists expect a post-2-degree world to look like. These are pulled from reports by the National Research Council, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the World Bank. • Wildfires in the United States are expected to increase 400 % to 800 % in size. • Hurricanes are expected to become 2 % to 8 % more intense. • A range of species will be at risk for extinction, particularly amphibians. The IPCC estimates 20 % to 30 % of animals and plants species will be at ``increasingly high risk of extinction'' at or near the 2-degree mark. • The Arctic is expected keep melting, losing 30 % of its annual average sea ice. • Certain crop yields in the United States, India and Africa are expected to decrease 10 % to 30 %. • The availability of freshwater is expected to decline by 20 %. So.. not good. And numbers don't convey the emotional toll. ``I'm from New Mexico,'' said Nordhaus, the economist who proposed the 2-degree threshold. ``I love it there, and I know it's going to be a completely different climate. The trout fishing probably won't be as good. The hiking won't be as good. These forests may look completely different, or burn down. I love to ski. It's one of my things I love most. And that's obviously affected by warming. I love the ocean, and the New England coastline, and it's in peril. That's just for starters.''. No one knows, exactly. Think of 2 degrees like a sort of speed limit -- or a zone of increased risk. Katharine Hayhoe, a climate scientist at Texas Tech, told me that burning fossil fuels is like smoking. How many cigarettes give you cancer ? No one knows, exactly. But the more you smoke, the more you up your risk. And 2 degrees, policy experts agree, is certainly risky territory. Plus, everyone hates a fraction. Targeting 1 degree of warming is ``ridiculous because you can't do it,'' said Nordhaus, the economist. ``Three sounds too high. And you can't have a fraction because it's too complicated. ``So two is kind of an obvious number.''. The climate already has warmed 0.85 degrees since the Industrial Revolution. And we reasonably can expect to reach 1.5 degrees simply based on the pollution we're already putting into the atmosphere, even with ``very ambitious mitigation action'' to reduce carbon emissions, according to a 2014 report from the World Bank. Some of that warming is ``locked-in to the Earth's atmospheric system,'' that organization says. The impacts of climate change already are being felt. Yes, but it won't be easy. ``If you want to stay below 2 degrees, you have to reduce emissions at an amazing speed -- to an incredible degree,'' said Jaeger from the Global Climate Forum. Here's the best guess for what that ``amazing speed'' might need to look like : Cutting greenhouse gas emissions by some 80 % to 90 % by 2050, said Jennifer Morgan, global director of the climate program at the World Resources Institute. ``It depends on how much risk you want to accept,'' she said. Some activists, including those from 350. org and Avaaz, which together organized the largest climate change rally in history last year in New York, want to accept less risk than that. ``Our position is 100 % clean energy,'' said David Sievers, a senior campaigner for Avaaz. If we continue burning fossil fuels at the current rate, we could hit 2 degrees of warming before midcentury. Scarier still, we could hit 3 to 5 degrees of warming by 2100. Some writers have called for the world to abandon the 2-degree target, saying it's too ambitious, or even naive. But we need a yardstick to measure progress -- and we need that ``north star'' to help us set goals that actually would be weighty enough to make a dent in this problem. If you think 2 degrees sounds bad, 5 degrees is far, far worse. The IPCC expects a 5-degree world to be characterized by ``major extinctions around the globe'' and a ``reconfiguration of coastlines worldwide.'' Just beyond that, at 6 degrees, we're looking a ``catastro-f ***'' that would be almost ``infinitely costly,'' said Wagner, the Environmental Defense Fund economist. ``It's akin to killing the planet, basically. Or society on the planet.''. This much should be clear : Something has to change. If we shoot for 2 degrees and end up at 3, that's still better ( or less awful ) than 5 or 6. What's important is that we maintain a sense of urgency, and keep sight of the goal. Please be in touch ! I need your help to make this work. Email questions to : climate ( at ) cnn ( dot ) com. Subscribe to the ``2 degrees'' newsletter. Follow the project on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
( CNN ) Is America a nation divided ? And has Ohio found a better way to bridge those divisions ?. It's hard not to be concerned with these questions given the constant drumbeat of news about the issues that tear us apart as a nation : immigration, community and police relations, poverty, education and dozens of other crucial matters facing America. Adding to our divisions is a harsh public atmosphere where politicians are preoccupied with how they can win the next election or give the best sound bite, and where lobby groups work to protect their narrow self-interests while ignoring a broader vision of what is best for our country. In Ohio, we have been able to drive meaningful change on many thorny issues that have held our state back in the past -- social services, criminal justice, economic competiveness, infrastructure -- and I've enjoyed sharing our state's winning formula with others in my travels. In 2011, I returned to public service -- after earlier serving for 18 years in Congress in the 1980s and'90s. Over the intervening years, Ohio had lost its way and was hurting. I felt called to help after knowing that members of 350,000 Ohio families had lost their jobs and were looking to get back on their feet. Ohio is much stronger today. And that turnaround and success are worth being excited about and sharing. For example, we have gone from 89 cents in our rainy day fund and an $ 8 billion shortfall to now having one of the nation's strongest state budgets and a nearly $ 2 billion surplus. We've gone from losing 350,000 private-sector jobs to creating about 340,000 new ones. We've gone from very high taxes across the board to the largest tax cuts in of any state in America, including tax cuts for the working poor. We're seeing wages grow faster than the national average and Ohio's unemployment rate drop to the lowest level in more than a decade. Getting Ohio back on track wasn't easy. It required big ideas, going against the status quo and tuning out those who worry only about protecting their own special interests. Yes, we have a great success story to tell about our state. And we need to make Ohio's success contagious. The leadership style that helped us turn around Ohio is needed in Washington, where America's $ 18 trillion debt ticks higher each day and our congressional leaders would struggle even to pass a resolution saluting Mother's Day if it required their action. Great leaders are not primarily guided by polls, political parties, focus groups, re-election, special interests or protecting the status quo. Instead they bring teams of people together, challenge them to innovate and engage both sides to work together to fashion solutions based on common sense and the common good. As the chairman of the House Budget Committee in Congress in the 1990s, I helped craft the first balanced budget since man walked on the moon. We worked in a bipartisan effort that doesn't happen enough. There were, of course, disagreements along the way, but they never overshadowed the shared values we had to guide our work and the shared goal of fiscal responsibility and seeing our country live within its means. Given the polarizing issues facing our country, America needs a leader who believes in a common set of fundamental values necessary to bring about change that will unite our country without being blinded by the many distractions that ego, selfishness and power produce. Leaders who focus only on themselves and their own good have rejected this value-driven approach and make it impossible to make progress on our most pressing issues such as balanced budgets, tax cuts, welfare reform, border security, immigration and health care. We see it every day. There are certain values that guide great countries :. • Personal responsibility : It obligates us to be accountable for ourselves so we can then do our duty for our families and our communities. • Empathy : It allows us to walk in someone else's shoes, so that in times of disagreement we might consider for a moment that there might be another, better way that makes all of us stronger. • Teamwork : It sets ego aside and demands that we all pull in the same direction to win. • Faith : It tells us we are made special in the image of God with unique gifts that enable our mission here on earth. These values allow us to develop policy solutions that solve problems in new and creative ways for the good of all Americans instead of producing rhetoric, sound bites and press releases that too often pass for true reform. In Ohio we've implemented this winning strategy. It's worked there, and it will work for the nation as well.
( CNN ) It is not hard to imagine the conversations inside the Hillary Clinton camp prelaunch : How do we take the best known woman in the world and make her seem like less of a big shot ?. How can the people in Iowa and New Hampshire get to know the ``real Hillary,'' the Midwestern Methodist ? ( As a friend told me, she's someone who ``likes to sing `God Bless America' on New Year's Eve.'' ) And how to open the minds of people about someone everyone already has an opinion about ?. Same questions, no doubt, that the staff asked in 2008 when she ran against the newbie Barack Obama, and same questions they asked when, as first lady, she ran for the Senate in New York. In that race, she ended up spending a lot of all-ears quality time in upstate New York. In this race, she could be spending a lot of all-you-can-eat time at Diners, Drive-ins and Dives -- just like the TV show. ( Except Guy Fieri would probably have been recognized by the crowd at Chipotle. Just sayin.' ). Dining aside, it's hard -- almost impossible -- to soft-launch a campaign with a superstar politician. All the gauzy ads and the small classrooms and the coffee shops can't mask the Houdini-like effort Hillary Clinton is making to escape the inescapable reality -- that even her ``Scooby-Doo'' van is followed by throngs of press. ( I half imagined an O.J. moment with a helicopter hovering as she made her way down I-80. ). Try as she might to launch with a humble start -- not entitled to anything -- she still is who she is. Virtually unchallenged. Not to mention famous, accomplished and controversial. In watching it all unfold, it's hard to underestimate the task at hand. It's also hard to figure out whether it's actually going to work. Hillary Clinton -- and her experienced campaign team -- are disciplined and relentlessly on message. That's usually a good thing when you're running a presidential campaign. But when you're sitting at a community college in Iowa and you tick off your rationale for running and your resume -- unprompted -- it seems less effective and more oddly incongruent. ( Especially when the former secretary of state described her tenure in five words -- as ``standing up for our country.'' Short shrift, it seems to me. ). Maybe it's that the old lessons of message discipline don't work in the informal environment the campaign is trying to create -- at least not with this candidate. The hardest combination in politics is that just-right mixture of spontaneity and discipline. The ability to understand exactly what you have to say ( over and over ) and then say it as if you have never said it before. And look like you're having a great time doing it. We like to call it authenticity, but it's probably not. It's a honed skill that combines connection and gravitas, both of which the voters demand in a president. ( A majority of voters -- 53 % -- say they want to vote for someone who has been financially successful, as opposed to someone who has not. ) So there's this balance : If you're too much like them, you're nothing special to vote for. But if you're too different, you're not relatable. It's a balance that doesn't come easily to Hillary Clinton. But she's not alone. When President George H.W. Bush was running for re-election in 1992, he was facing his own image issues. His populist challengers were calling him insensitive to middle class woes in the struggling state of New Hampshire. Bush tried mightily to drop the presidential persona, did some town halls, and famously declared : ``Message : I care.'' Some said he actually read it from a cue card, but he also said this : ``I don't know what I have to do to convince people here that I really care about this ( the economy ). I do.''. He lost. To an empathetic I-feel-your-pain Bill Clinton. And the rest, as they say, is history. Or, in Hillary's case, at least trying to make history.
Washington ( CNN ) Nearly 6 in 10 Americans say that businesses that provide wedding-related services should be required to provide those services to same-sex couples in the same way they would all other customers, even if they have religious objections. A new CNN/ORC poll finds 57 % feel businesses such as caterers or florists should be required to serve gay or lesbian couples just as they would heterosexual couples, while 41 % say they should be allowed to refuse service for religious reasons. That's a shift from a Pew Research Center poll conducted last fall, which found just 49 % thought businesses ought to be required to serve same-sex couples while 47 % that they should be allowed to refuse service on religious grounds. Since the Pew poll last fall, Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, signed into law in late March by Republican governor Mike Pence, sparked a nationwide controversy over whether the law allowed wedding-related businesses to refuse service to gay and lesbian couples. Apple, Walmart and the NCAA all spoke out against the law, while some states and cities with Democratic leaders barred spending public money in Indiana. Pence and other Indiana legislators insisted discrimination was not the law's intent and a bill to change the original law was signed in early April. In the CNN/ORC Poll, most Democrats ( 70 % ) and independents ( 60 % ) say wedding-related businesses should be required to provide services to same-sex couples as they would different-sex couples, while Republicans break broadly the other way, 67 % say religious reasons are a valid justification for refusing service. Full poll results. Looking at Republicans and independents who lean toward the Republican Party, 60 % in that group say wedding-related businesses should be allowed to refuse services to same-sex couples, but there are sharp divides within that group by age and ideology. Moderate and liberal Republicans and Republican-leaners broadly say wedding-related businesses should be required to serve all couples the same way ( 58 % ) while three-quarters of conservative Republicans favor allowing a caterer or florist to refuse service for religious reasons ( 74 % ). Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents under age 50, 56 % say wedding-related businesses should be required to serve same-sex and different-sex couples the same way while among those age 50 or older, 72 % think they should not be required to do so. The big gay wedding cake quiz. Age differences hold across party lines, but the generation gap among Republicans and Republican-leaners is larger than that among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents. Overall, white evangelicals are broadly in favor of allowing businesses to refuse service for religious reasons - 62 % say they should be able to. But among whites who are not evangelicals, 61 % say such businesses should be required to provide services to all couples the same way. The shift from the Pew Center results comes across demographic lines. Men, women, whites, younger adults and senior citizens all are more apt than in the Pew poll to say wedding-related business should be required to serve same-sex couples as they do others. The CNN/ORC International poll was conducted by telephone, April 16-19, among a random national sample of 1,018 adult Americans. Results for the full poll have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Michigan auto repair shop says yes to gun owners, no to homosexuals.
( CNN ) Nine of ten mostly foreign prisoners on death row in Indonesia have been given 72 hours notice ahead of their execution, according to a spokesperson for the Attorney General's office. ``Seventy-two hours notification means three days, at least, to go to the execution. It may be longer. In other words, there will be no execution less than 72 hours after notification,'' Tony Spontana told CNN by phone Sunday. Though Indonesian officials said all 10 would be executed at the same time, Spontana said French national Serge Atlaoui had filed a challenge to the State Administrative Court on Thursday so his sentence has been delayed. Meanwhile, Edre Olalia, a lawyer acting for Philippines maid Mary Jane Veloso, told CNN Sunday that Veloso had telephoned her sister on Saturday at about 5:30 p.m. local time and said her execution will take place on Tuesday, April 28. Officials at the Philippines Embassy in Jakarta confirmed the same information. According to her lawyers, Veloso unknowingly carried drugs into Indonesia, and that she was set up by members of a drug syndicate. On Friday, Indonesian officials advised relevant consular officials to travel to Indonesia's ``execution island'' -- Nusa Kambangan -- where the ten are being held -- a sign that the sentences may be carried out soon. They will face a firing squad. OPINION : Why executions won't win Indonesia's drug war. The ten on death row, which also include two Australian citizens Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran -- members of the so-called ``Bali Nine'' smuggling ring -- as well as prisoners from Ghana, Brazil, Nigeria and Indonesia, had their petitions for clemency denied by President Joko Widodo in late 2014. A statement Sunday from Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said the Australian government had been notified that the execution of Chan and Sukumaran would be carried out ``imminently.''. ``I spoke to Mr. Sukumaran's mother Raji yesterday and assured her the government would continue to seek clemency from Indonesian President Widodo for both men. ``They have been rehabilitated in a most remarkable way over the past ten years and are genuinely remorseful for their serious crimes. ``Nothing can be gained and much will be lost if these two young Australians are executed. ``I again respectfully call on the President of Indonesia to reconsider his refusal to grant clemency. It is not too late for a change of heart.''. The two Australians, convicted for their role in a failed 2005 heroin smuggling plot, tried to challenge the President's decision earlier this month but lost an appeal for the State Administrative Court to hear their case. Their lawyers have since filed another review at the Constitutional Court. The Attorney General's office has said they would respect all ongoing court proceedings but insisted the inmates have exhausted all their legal options. Australia has repeatedly appealed for clemency for the pair and has unsuccessfully proposed a prisoner swap with Indonesia as a way of avoiding their deaths. On Saturday, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called on Indonesia's government to reverse their decision. ``The Secretary-General appeals to the government of Indonesia to refrain from carrying out the execution, as announced, of 10 prisoners on death row for alleged drug-related crimes,'' a spokesman for Ban said, according to various reports. Meanwhile, Human Rights Watch says President Widodo ``has an important opportunity to signal Indonesia's rejection of the death penalty by sparing the lives of the 10 people facing looming execution.''. ``Widodo can demonstrate true leadership by ending capital punishment as unacceptable state brutality,'' said Phelim Kine, deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch, in a statement Saturday. ``President Widodo should recognize that the death penalty is not a crime deterrent but an unjustifiable and barbaric punishment. Widodo should promote Indonesia as a rights-respecting democracy by joining the countries that have abolished capital punishment.''
( CNN ) Two of the best actresses on television are back on ``The Big Bang Theory'' -- one of our six suggested things to watch this week. 1. ``The Big Bang Theory,'' Thursday 8 p.m. ET, CBS. Sheldon and Leonard's moms are back, and that ought to make for one of the best episodes this season. TV's top comedy will see the return of Christine Baranski and Laurie Metcalf as the mothers of Leonard and Sheldon, respectively. Seeing as they're two of the most talented actresses on television, we should be in for a great episode, as the pair drive their sons crazy. 2. ``Saturday Night Live,'' Saturday May 2 at 11:30 p.m., NBC. Scarlett Johannsson is the host, the day after her new blockbuster ``Avengers'' movie opens nationwide. 3. ``Mom,'' Thursday 9:30 p.m., CBS. Allison Janney continues to deliver Emmy-worthy performances in this underrated Chuck Lorre dramedy. The season finale is this week. 4. ``Backstrom,'' Thursday 9 p.m., Fox. Time will tell if the Rainn Wilson crime drama comes back in the fall, but fans of the quirky series won't want to miss the season finale. 5. ``Blue Bloods,'' Friday 10 p.m., CBS. The Tom Selleck drama concludes its two-part season finale, although its future is in question. 6. ``Younger,'' Tuesday 10 p.m., TV Land. This charming comedy from the creator of ``Sex and the City'' just got picked up for a second season. Now is a great time to tune in as Sutton Foster and Hilary Duff deal with a secret generation gap that one of them doesn't know exists.
( CNN ) Hey, look what I did. That small boast on social media can trigger a whirlwind that spins into real-life grief, as a Texas veterinarian found out after shooting a cat. Dr. Kristen Lindsey allegedly shot an arrow into the back of an orange tabby's head and posted a proud photo this week on Facebook of herself smiling, as she dangled its limp body by the arrow's shaft. Lindsey added a comment, CNN affiliate KBTX reported. ``My first bow kill, lol. The only good feral tomcat is one with an arrow through it's head ! Vet of the year award.. Gladly accepted.''. Callers rang the phones hot at Washington County's Animal Clinic, where Lindsey worked, to vent their outrage. Web traffic crashed its website. High price of public shaming on the Internet. Then an animal rescuer said that Lindsey's prey was probably not a feral cat but the pet of an elderly couple, who called him ``Tiger.'' He had gone missing on Wednesday, the same day that Lindsey posted the photo of the slain cat. CNN has not been able to confirm the claim. As the firestorm grew, Lindsey wrote in the comments underneath her post : ``no I did not lose my job. Lol. Psshh. Like someone would get rid of me. I'm awesome !''. That prediction was wrong. The clinic fired Lindsey, covered her name on its marquee with duct tape, and publicly distanced itself from her actions. ``Our goal now is to go on and try to fix our black eye and hope that people are reasonable and understand that those actions don't anyway portray what we're for here at Washington Animal Clinic,'' said Dr. Bruce Buenger. ``We put our heart and soul into this place.''. The clinic told WBTX that Lindsey was not available for comment. CNN is reaching out to her. She removed her controversial post then eventually shut down her Facebook page. Callers also complained to the Brenham Police Department and Washington County Animal Control, as her Facebook post went viral. The sheriff's office in Austin County, where the cat was apparently shot, is investigating, and Lindsey could face charges. Its dispatchers were overloaded with calls, the sheriff posted on Facebook. ``We are asking you to please take it easy on our dispatchers. As soon as the investigation is complete, we will post the relevant information here on this page,'' the post read. Animal rights activists are pushing for charges. ``Animal cruelty must be taken seriously, and the guilty parties should be punished to the fullest extent of the law,'' said cat advocacy activist Becky Robinson. Her organization, Alley Cat Allies, is offering a $ 7,500 reward for evidence leading to the arrest and conviction of the person who shot the cat. But others stood up for Lindsey. ``She's amazing. She's caring,'' said customer Shannon Stoddard. ``She's a good vet, so maybe her bad choice of posting something on Facebook was not good. But I don't think she should be judged for it.''. She dropped off balloons at the animal clinic for Lindsey with a thank you note. CNN's Jeremy Grisham contributed to this report.
( CNN ) At least four people are missing after a severe storm capsized sailboats Saturday afternoon during a regatta in Mobile Bay, Alabama, Coast Guard spokesman Carlos Vega said. Five people were initially reported missing, but one of them has since been been rescued, the Coast Guard said. More than 100 sailboats took part in the Dauphin Island Race and as many as 50 people in all were rescued from the water, the Coast Guard said. Jeff Carter, deputy director of Mobile County Emergency Management, said his department is reporting that one person may have died. Besides overturned sailboats, one vessel hit a bridge, he said. Search and rescue efforts are ongoing, the Coast Guard said. Coast Guard Sector Mobile received a report at approximately 4:30 p.m. that a sailing regatta in Mobile Bay had been struck by severe weather, causing several vessels to capsize and leaving a number of people in the water. The Coast Guard and other agencies were on the scene Saturday night, Vega said. The Fairhope Yacht Club sponsors the Dauphin Island Race, according to the club website. The club says this is the 57th year for the event.
( CNN ) These are fearful times on the highest mountain in the world. The devastating earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday set off avalanches that left large numbers of climbers dead, missing, injured or trapped on Mount Everest. And aftershocks, including a strong one Sunday, are continuing to send snow and rocks thundering down the mountainside, complicating rescue efforts. ``We were sitting here in base camp, feeling the situation was getting better,'' said climber Carsten Pederson. ``And then suddenly, we felt the aftershock,'' he told CNN on Sunday. ``And immediately after the shock, we hear avalanches from all the mountains around us.''. But those avalanches didn't appear to be on the same scale as those that came roaring down on the camp Saturday. The base camp on the Nepal side of Everest is in a vulnerable spot, sitting in a valley surrounded by high Himalayan peaks. When the huge, lengthy quake struck Saturday, the scores of climbers who had gathered there to prepare for or recover from ascents of the peak had nowhere to run. ``An earthquake that long set off avalanches all the way around us. And they came down -- they were large, they were massive avalanches,'' said Jon Reiter, an American mountaineer at the base camp. People tried to flee as the onrushing wall of snow, ice and rocks took out large sections of the camp. ``They were trying to outrun the avalanche and you can not,'' said Pederson. ``So many people were hit from behind, blown off the mountain, blown into rocks, hit by debris, tents were flying off.''. He said he took shelter behind a large pile of stones. ``I could hardly breathe, but I could stay until the avalanche was over,'' he told CNN. A huge cloud of snow dust billowed hundreds of feet into the sky. ``We all ducked for cover until the cloud passed and then started dealing with the aftermath,'' Reiter said. That included at least 17 people killed, dozens injured and many others missing, he said. They are one part of the enormous human toll in Nepal and beyond from the catastrophic quake. The many unhurt people at the camp scrambled to help the injured, digging them out of the snow and turning dining tents into makeshift field hospitals. Snow that continued to fall made it hard for them to see, hampering their efforts. Climbers worked in shifts through the night, nursing the injured as they waited for the weather conditions to improve to allow helicopters in. ``A lot of them are in pretty tough shape,'' Reiter said of the injured. The airlifts of those with the most severe injuries began Sunday morning after the weather cleared. ``The sun is breaking through the clouds, and the choppers are coming in,'' Reiter said. ``We're pretty grateful. We're going to get these guys down the hill.''. Pederson said that most of the injured people at the base camp had been airlifted out by Sunday afternoon. But concerns were growing for the groups of climbers stuck farther up the 29,035-foot ( 8,848-meter ) mountain in Camps 1 and 2. The avalanche was reported to have trapped them above the icefall area, an already treacherous part of the mountain that separates the base camp from Camp 1. ``They'll have to put a new route in from base camp up through that icefall,'' said Jim Whittaker, the first American to reach the summit of Mount Everest. The climbers ``will have to cool it for a couple days, wait until the route is re-established,'' he told CNN. But the frequent aftershocks were making that task more difficult. Alex Gavan, a mountaineer at the base camp, said Sunday on Twitter that ropes and other gear were being helicoptered to the people trapped above the icefall. A few of the climbers were taken down by helicopter, but more than 100 were believed to still be up there, he wrote. ``Practically, it's impossible to get them off with helicopters,'' Pederson said. ``There are so many people up there.''. Amid the struggle to save the living, details started to emerge about some of the dead. Among them was Dan Fredinburg, an American executive at Google who had been posting updates about his adventures in Nepal on Instagram and Twitter. His sister, Megan, updated the Instagram account with a message saying he suffered a major head injury. ``We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us,'' she wrote. ``All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us.''. Eve Girawong, a medic from New Jersey who worked on the mountain, was also killed, according to her family and employer. ``On behalf of my family, it is with deep sadness that I write that our beloved daughter, younger sister and best friend has been taken from us today,'' a family member wrote on Facebook. ``Nong Eve Girawong was doing the thing she loved doing most -- helping others. Words can not describe the heartbreak and pain that we are currently suffering.''. People at the base camp described a grim, chaotic situation after the avalanches Saturday. ``It's a pretty rough scene up here,'' Reiter said. He told CNN that he'd put one dead man inside a sleeping bag and zipped it up. Many of those who suffered the worst injuries were asked to write down their names to identify them in case they died, Reiter said. The exact number of dead remained unclear. Reiter reported 17 ; Nima Namgyal, a doctor with an expedition at the base camp told CNN that he had seen 14 bodies so far. But an unknown number of people are still missing, buried beneath the snow and ice. The earthquake struck just over a year after an avalanche on Everest killed 16 Sherpas, the deadliest single disaster on the mountain up to that point. The Sherpas, an ethnic group, are famed for their climbing skills and often work as mountain guides. ``This is our job,'' said Pasang Sherpa, who lost people close to him in the 2014 avalanche. ``So there is always a risk of death.''. Reiter was also there last year when that avalanche came crashing down the icefall. He described to CNN at the time the harrowing experience of seeing bodies being removed. The American climber has scaled all of the ``Seven Summits,'' the highest mountain on each of the seven continents, except Everest. This is his third straight year trying to scale the tallest peak of them all. He turned back in 2013 ``because it didn't feel right,'' according to his wife, Susan. Will Reiter try again after witnessing another disaster on the mountain ?. ``You would think that he wouldn't because of this and because of last year,'' Susan Reiter said from her Northern California home. ``But knowing my husband I think he will. I hope not, but I don't want to hold him back.''. CNN's Greg Botelho, Katia Hetter, Jessica King and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Tickets will go on sale after an agreement on allocation was reached for the May 2 fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao. In what Pacquiao's promoter, Bob Arum, dubbed the ``fight of the century,'' disagreements have hampered the release of the tickets because of questions over how many tickets would be allocated to each fighter for the highly-anticipated Las Vegas event. ``There was a craze for tickets and under our agreement with Mayweather Promotions, we felt we were being deprived of our fair share of the tickets ( from ) the standpoint of number and location,'' Arum told CNN. ``It was very, very important to my fighter Manny Pacquiao, to the Philippines people.. Manny has friends and family like you can't believe -- that will be in account for 800 or 900 tickets themselves.''. The cheapest tickets for the bout are priced at $ 1,500 but demand for the fight is such that some seats could fetch as much as $ 11,000 on the secondary market. Kenny Bayless has been named as the referee of next month's fight between Mayweather and Pacquiao. The Nevada State Athletic Commission said Bayless, who has officiated more than 100 title contests, would take charge of the most anticipated bout in recent boxing history at the MGM Grand. The 64-year-old Nevada native, who has refereed five of Mayweather's bouts and seven of Pacquiao's, was described as ``the best referee out there'' by Pacquiao's trainer Freddie Roach. And Nevada State Athletic Commission executive director Robert Bennett said : ``Kenny knows the pressure, stress and responsibility. ``He's efficient and effective, and has proven to be successful over a number of years working in Las Vegas and other parts of the world. He's one of the best referees in the world.''. The commission also confirmed that three American judges -- Dave Moretti and Burt Clements of Nevada and Glenn Feldman of Connecticut -- had been appointed for the fight. ``I think we have the best judges, and Kenny Bayless is the best referee out there,'' Roach said. ``I think he's going to give us a fair fight.''. The welterweight world title fight is likely to smash all revenue records and become the richest bout in the sport's history, eclipsing the pay-per-view record of 2.4 million viewers for Mayweather's fight against Oscar De La Hoya in 2007. Speaking when the bout was confirmed in February, Pacquiao said : ``I am very happy that Floyd Mayweather and I can give the fans the fight they have wanted for so many years. ``They have waited long enough, and they deserve it.''. Mayweather and Pacquiao have been considered the best pound-for-pound boxers of their generation but a host of issues -- including differences over drug testing protocols as well as revenue splits and broadcaster conflicts -- have stopped the two from meeting in the ring. Both are coming to the end of their careers and have established interests elsewhere. According to Forbes, Mayweather, 38, is the highest paid athlete in world sport. Pacquiao, who is 36, has run for political office in his native Philippines.
( CNN ) There will be no hate crime charges for two males arrested in the beating of a man that may have been sparked by a question about the 2014 shooting of Michael Brown. St. Louis police have charged Ronald Williams, 21, with assault. A 15-year-old has also been arrested, according to authorities. There had been speculation that the suspects might be charged with a hate crime because the victim was white and the people who attacked him were black. And because the punches were thrown following the Michael Brown reference. But that won't be happening. ``Specifically, when put in context, it did not support the finding that the acts in this case met the elements of the hate crime statute in the state of Missouri, specifically proving the motivating factor behind the individual that we have charged, Ed Postawko with the St. Louis Circuit Attorney's Office told CNN affilaite KMOV. The beating, which occurred on a MetroLink light rail train, was caught on surveillance cameras and a passenger's cell phone camera. The passenger posted the video online, and it went viral. The victim, 43, said he was commuting home when a young black man asked to use the victim's cell phone. He declined, and the young man asked his opinion about the shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed teenager killed by a police officer in nearby Ferguson, Missouri, last summer, the man said. That shooting raised questions nationwide about use of deadly force by police. ``The next thing I know, he sucker punches me right in the middle of my face,'' the victim told CNN affiliate KMOV. The video showed a male unleashing a barrage of punches at the head of the victim, who covered himself with his hand and forearms. Two other males joined in, police said. The attackers fled. The man, who asked not to be identified, was treated at the scene for injuries and didn't go to the hospital.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) We came on a commercial flight to Kathmandu. Blue tarps were visible from the sky for people to hide under -- signs that there was something wrong. We had to circle the airport for a couple of hours. There were a couple of issues. There was an aftershock this afternoon, so they were checking the runway for damage. Military and aid flights have priority, and a few military planes -- Indian military planes -- were going in, trying to bring in aid. Whether they did is unclear. When we landed at the airport, it was wet and cold. A couple of thousand people were lining the road to the entrance to the airport trying to get out. But there's no way to get out, really. There were torrential rainstorms for a couple of hours, and with the strong aftershock a couple of hours ago, no one wants to go inside. The residents of Kathmandu sure don't. You can see some structural damage to buildings. Most buildings are not up to high construction standards. Fallen : Nepal's historic landmarks. Driving through the city, there's not a huge amount of visible damage. There's some damage to houses and buildings, but it's not as visual as the Haiti earthquake ( of 2010 ). We were able to drive the main road to the hotel we're staying at, but they're not allowing anyone inside because of the aftershocks. The guests are in a big tent used for functions on the lawn. People are squeezed in. There are probably about 100 people in there. The tents are covered, but water is seeping in from streets puddled with water, especially around the edges of the tent. So people are outside in the rain with no shelter. It's visually stark, with people in the streets. It's colder than usual this time of year. I'm cold and damp. When it's almost May, it's usually much hotter. There's very little power in the city -- no power to speak of, no drinking water. For the residents, it's really bad. Very soon, they will need shelter. Temporary shelters have been put up, but very few -- 16 -- by the government. It looks like a city where buildings have been abandoned. People are hanging out in public squares and at intersections to avoid rubble from buildings. Those who survived -- and those who didn't. There are issues with fuel in the city, and driving in, all the stores were shuttered. You occasionally see a cart with food or a few bottles of drinking water, but for the most part, nothing is being sold in the city. I don't think they're very concerned about looting, and there's no military in the streets, but they will have to get water and food in the city soon. Communal kitchens have been set up for cooking. Not by the government -- people set them up on their own. People are beside themselves in shock. Their biggest concern now is the structures, needing a place for shelter, to hide from the elements and sleep. Food will become the biggest concern in the coming days. Kathmandu isn't the epicenter though. No one's sure what it's like at the epicenter. People haven't been able to get to outlying areas. We haven't been able to corroborate this, but the people we're talking to here say there's damage to the villages outside Kathmandu -- thousands of houses damaged to the north, closer to the epicenter. CNN's Ingrid Formanek reported from Kathmandu and Mark Morgenstein wrote in Atlanta.
( CNN ) One of the biggest stars in mixed martial arts is wanted for questioning after a hit-and-run crash in New Mexico. Jon ``Bones'' Jones, the reigning UFC light heavyweight champion, is wanted for ``his possible involvement in a hit-and-run accident'' Sunday morning, Albuquerque police said. A pregnant woman in her 20s who was driving another vehicle suffered minor injuries in the accident, police said. ``Officers attempted to contact Mr. Jones at his residence Sunday evening, but were unsuccessful,'' Albuquerque police said in a statement. ``We have also reached out to his lawyer, but as of now, have not heard back.''. Police stressed that they can not confirm whether Jones was involved in the crash. CNN Sports has reached out to Ultimate Fighting Championship and Jones' attorney for comment. Jones, 27, is arguably UFC's biggest star in the sport's most respected weight class. But he has also had his struggles. In January, Jones entered a drug rehabilitation center after testing positive for cocaine in a test administered by the Nevada Athletic Commission. He checked himself out of rehab after one day of treatment. Jones is scheduled to fight Anthony Johnson in UFC 187 on May 23 in Las Vegas.
( CNN ) If you were mourning the loss of a loved one in China, at least the entertainment might have cheered you up. Until now. In rural China, hiring exotic dancers to perform at wakes is an increasingly common practice, but is now the latest focus of the country's crackdown on vice. Strippers are invited to perform at funerals, often at great expense, to attract more mourners, China's official Xinhua news agency said. Another report suggested another motivation : that the performances ``add to the fun.''. Photos obtained by CNN from an attendee at a village funeral in Cheng `an County in Hebei Province show mourners of all ages, including children, watching the performance. The attendee, who asked not to be identified, said he was visiting family during the Lunar New Year holiday. While he was there, one of the elderly villagers died so he went to the funeral. ``I felt something wasn't right,'' he told CNN. ``The performance crossed the line. I had heard about hiring strippers to dance at funerals but had never seen it myself. I was shocked when I saw the strippers.''. He said the villagers said this kind of performance had been practiced for a while. ``They didn't find it shocking or strange. They were used to it. ``They told me, `what if we can't watch ( this kind of ) performance after it gets exposed by the media ?'''. In some areas of China, the hiring of professional mourners, known as ``kusangren'' is commonplace. These can include performances, although in recent times the dance acts have increasingly tended towards the erotic. China's Ministry of Culture issued a statement Thursday announcing a crackdown on these funeral stripteases. It said that the ministry had investigated two separate incidents, one in Handan City, Hebei Province, and the other in Suqian City, Jiangsu Province. Both involved multiple-participant ``burlesque'' and ``striptease'' shows as mourners looked on. The Ministry's report said that stripteases undermined ``the cultural value of the entertainment business,'' and asserted that ``such acts were uncivilized.''. The practice has been going on for some time, the report said. Exotic dancing and other forms of pornography are illegal in China. The dancers in the two cases were held in ``administrative detention'' following the two investigations, the report added. The Ministry of Culture did not respond to CNN requests for comment. Last year, the Chinese Ministry of Public Security ordered police across China to step up efforts to tackle the ``three vices'' -- prostitution, gambling and drug trafficking -- warning officials they would be held accountable for illegal activities. In February 2014, a massive crackdown on prostitution in the southern manufacturing city of Dongguan, dubbed ``Sin City'' for its huge vice industry, raided 2,000 establishments and detained more than 900 people.
Boston ( CNN ) Sending Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to prison for the rest of his life would bring years of punishment and rob him of martyrdom, jurors were told Monday. ``We have seen more pain and more horror and more grief in this courtroom than any of you would have thought possible,'' attorney David Bruck said as Tsarnaev's defense team began what could be a two-week campaign to avoid the death penalty. ``No punishment could ever be equal to the terrible effects of this crime on the survivors and the victims' families,'' he said. ``There is no evening of the scales. There is no point of trying to hurt him as he hurt because it can't be done. All we can do, all you can do is make the best choice.''. Bruck told jurors there are only two punishments for them to choose from : death, or life in prison without any possibility of parole. ``We are asking you to punish Jahar by imprisoning him for the rest of his life.''. Showing the court a photo of the federal Supermax prison in Colorado, Bruck said :. ``This is where the government keeps other terrorists who used to be famous but aren't anymore.. He goes here and he's forgotten. No more spotlight, like the death penalty brings. ``No interviews with the news media, no autobiography, no messages from Jahar on the Internet. No nothing. ``No martyrdom. Just years and years of punishment, day after day, as he grows up to deal with the lonely struggle of dealing with what he did. ``The evidence will show that if you sentence Jahar to a lifetime of thinking about what he did, you'll both punish him and protect society.''. Tsarnaev, 21, was convicted this month of all 30 counts against him ; 17 of those counts carry the death penalty for the murders of four -- Krystle Campbell, 29 ; Lingzi Lu, 23 ; Martin Richard, 8 ; and Sean Collier, 26. In deciding whether the former college student is executed for his crimes or spends the rest of his days in a high-security federal prison, jurors must weigh the heinousness of his crime and the toll on his victims against so-called mitigating factors, such as his relative youth, mental health and family background, and whether or not he is remorseful. He has shown no emotion as he sits in court, and he has avoided eye contact with maimed bombing survivors and relatives of the dead. Last week, federal prosecutors presented three days of gut-wrenching victim impact testimony, including an array of images showing the victims as happy, active people and edited videos that added a soundtrack featuring a loud explosion, screams and panicked voices to the horrific bombing scene outside the Forum restaurant, where Richard and Lu died. Lead defense attorney Judy Clarke -- a nationally known death penalty opponent -- has acknowledged that Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, set off the bombs and shot MIT campus cop Collier. But she is expected to build a narrative showing her client as a puppet of his dominant older brother. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was 26, died in a gunbattle with Watertown, Massachusetts, police three days after the bombings. Clarke's colleague, Bruck, began that narrative in his opening statement by noting, ``The man who conceived, planned and led this crime is beyond our power to punish. Only the 19-year-old younger brother who helped is left. ``He was 19, nearly 20. But he was still at an age still legally too young to buy a beer. And an age when people make horribly bad, destructive decisions. What each of you will have to decide for yourself is how to weigh his young age as a mitigating factor.''. Bruck tried to use a photo prosecutors introduced last week -- showing Tsarnaev raising his middle finger at a surveillance camera in his federal courthouse cell -- to make his point. ``I could almost hear you gasp'' when that photo was displayed between images of bombing victims, Bruck said. ``It turned out that shocking gesture wasn't quite as advertised. ``What did he mean ? It meant he was acting as an immature 19-year-old.''. Several members of Tsarnaev's family arrived in Boston over the weekend, but the defense is closely guarding its witness list. The relatives, who are at an undisclosed location after being forced to leave a suburban hotel, apparently do not include his parents, who divorced and returned to Dagestan before the April 15, 2013, bombings. Court filings indicate that the defense plans to call expert witness Janet Vogelsang, a sociologist, to explain Tsarnaev's difficult upbringing as the overlooked child of immigrants -- displaced Russian Muslims whose American dream failed. Under federal law, the jury's decision must be unanimous. A deadlocked jury would result in an automatic life sentence for Tsarnaev -- which means the defense only needs to convince one juror to spare his life. The Boston Globe reported over the weekend that fewer than 20 % of those polled in Massachusetts favor the death penalty for Tsarnaev. The number is down substantially since the days after the bombings.
Ali Addeh refugee camp, Djibouti ( CNN ) Henol and Mebratu emerge from their current home, a modest structure with plastic sheeting serving as its roof, carrying the ``master folder.''. One of the most important documents on the camp, it's a record of each Eritrean's name and their case -- whether they've been granted refugee status, whether they've had their resettlement interview, whether they've attempted the journey to Europe by sea, and whether they've survived it. By the rows of names, red dots are marked to signify the dead. In the past few days, news -- from the network of friends and family across the world -- came in that 20 new dots needed to be scratched in -- for the 20 friends who'd drowned off the shores of Italy. For 25 years, Ali Addeh refugee camp has been a holding point for those fleeing into Djibouti, which borders Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia in the Horn of Africa. For the camp's 10,000 residents, who mostly come from these countries, this is supposed to be just the first stop on their journey to resettlement through the United Nations. Many though say it's been years and they're tired of waiting. For those willing to pay, there's another route to a new life. Across the Ethiopian border, through to Sudan and then up and across into Libya -- from where the migrant ships operated by human traffickers set sail at high tide. Henol's friend Soloman was among the hundreds who lost their lives this week when their boat capsized in the Mediterranean en route to Europe, he tells me. They'd grown up together -- even made the risky journey to Djibouti together. When the time came for Soloman to travel, Henol says he was asked to go too but said no. He hoped to give the legal route a little longer. It was the first time they'd been separated in years. I ask Henol if he still believes in the legal route. ``I can see now that we've been forgotten by the world,'' he says. ``There is no solution here. No solution back home -- what can we do ? We are living in limbo.''. He tells me he now plans to follow his friend. Even though he died trying, I ask ?. ``Yes,'' he replies. Eritrea is ranked as one of the most repressive countries in the world, with an aging dictator enforcing a brutal regime of forced conscription to the army that rights groups believe is a cover for mass exploitation. Elected by the country's national assembly in 1993, Isaias Afewerki runs what is essentially a one-party state. One young man at the camp comes over on crutches to show us his disfigured knee. The commander of his military unit, he says, accused him of insubordination and with a viscous kick left him disabled for life -- just a few months shy of his 17th birthday. He asks that we not reveal his name. These are the things no one here will talk about on camera. Back in Djibouti we find a man who is willing to speak, as long as we obscure his identity. With his face in shadow he haltingly tells us that the last time he saw his father was 20 years ago -- the night his mother was killed trying to stop the men who came to take him away. He believes they were working for the security forces. As soon as he was old enough, he says he made his first attempt at crossing into Djibouti. He was discovered and wounded by gunfire. As soon as he'd recovered though, he tried again, knowing that if he was caught this time he'd be killed. Despite a wound that had barely healed, he made it into Djibouti after four days of walking day and night. This is where he's been for the last seven years, waiting to be resettled through the UN. The uncertainty is agony. He understands why others have pinned their hopes on people smugglers and leaky vessels. ``People risk their lives,'' he says, ``for a better life. ``All this that is happening -LSB- in Europe -RSB- is because of the neglect of the international community. ``People come to Djibouti and look at someone like me who's been waiting so long and think there is no hope. It's better to put ourselves in the hands of God.''. If he had the money, he says, he would too.
( CNN ) For years, Warren Weinstein's family frantically searched for details about his whereabouts and pushed for his release. His wife said she was still searching for answers Thursday after U.S. officials revealed the 73-year-old American aid worker had been accidentally killed in a U.S. drone strike targeting al Qaeda. ``We were so hopeful that those in the U.S. and Pakistani governments with the power to take action and secure his release would have done everything possible to do so, and there are no words to do justice to the disappointment and heartbreak we are going through,'' Elaine Weinstein said in a statement. ``We do not yet fully understand all of the facts surrounding Warren's death, but we do understand that the U.S. government will be conducting an independent investigation of the circumstances.''. Gunmen abducted Weinstein in 2011 from his home in Lahore, Parkistan. They posed as neighbors, offered food and then pistol-whipped the American aid worker and tied up his guards, his family said. Just a few months after Weinstein's capture, al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri released a recording claiming the terror group was holding Weinstein -- and demanding, among other things, that the United States end airstrikes in Pakistan. U.S. officials called for his release but repeatedly said Washington wouldn't bargain with al Qaeda. Weinstein -- a husband, father and grandfather from Rockville, Maryland -- was 73 years old when he was killed, according to a family website detailing information about his case. He worked in Pakistan as a contractor for the U.S. Agency for International Development from 2004 to 2011, the website says. His employer, Virginia-based consulting firm J.E. Austin Associates Inc., described him as a world-renowned development expert. ``Warren spent his entire life working to benefit people across the globe and loved the work that he did to make people's lives better,'' his wife said Thursday. He loved the Pakistani people and their culture, she said, learning to speak Urdu and doing ``everything he could to show his utmost and profound respect for the region.''. As he announced Weinstein's death Thursday, U.S. President Barack Obama praised what he said was Weinstein's lifelong dedication to service, first as a Peace Corps volunteer and later as a USAID contractor. Weinstein, Obama said, was someone who ``willingly left the comforts of home to help the people of Pakistan,'' focusing his work on helping families escape poverty to give their children a better life. ``This was a man who basically dedicated his life to service, to people in general, but especially to people in a country where the standard of living was low and difficult.. It's tragic that he was killed the way he was,'' former U.S. Ambassador Dan Simpson said. Simpson met Weinstein in 1968 when they were both working in Burundi -- Simpson as a diplomat and Weinstein as a scholar researching several books. Weinstein ``was a very kind person,'' Simpson said, ``and someone who was very sensitive to the needs of the people who he worked with.''. Another hostage was also killed in the January operation, Italian aid worker Giovanni Lo Porto. U.S. officials knew they were targeting an al Qaeda compound in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region in the January counterterrorism operation, Obama said, but they didn't know that the hostages were also there. Both Lo Porto and Weinstein were people who ``believed passionately'' that they could make a difference, Obama said. ``There could be no starker contrast between these two selfless men and their al Qaeda captors,'' Obama said Thursday. ``Warren's work benefited people across faiths. Meanwhile, al Qaeda boasted to the world that it held Warren citing his Jewish faith.''. Weinstein's health had been deteriorating, Obama said. Last year daughter Alisa Weinstein told CNN her father suffered from a heart condition and severe asthma. But it was still an optimistic time for the family. That month captors released U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, and that buoyed hopes from Weinstein's family that he could also be freed. ``They have shown with this exchange that they can get this done. If they want to, they can do this,'' Alisa Weinstein said at the time. ``So I know that they can do it for us and they can do it for others.''. But a prisoner swap never happened for Weinstein, even though his family pushed for one. Al Qaeda released a video of Weinstein on Christmas 2013. He appeared gaunt and said he was suffering. ``Needless to say, I've been suffering deep anxiety every part of every day, not knowing what is happening to my family and not knowing how they are and because I am not with them,'' Weinstein said in the video. At the time, a former colleague and friend said his appearance in the video was jarring. ``Quite honestly, I didn't recognize him in the picture,'' Laurie Wiseberg told CNN. ``He has changed so dramatically from the person he used to be in terms of appearance and I would hope something could be done so he has a chance to be reunited with his family, his wife, his children and grandchildren, and not have to die in a foreign country far away from those he loves.''. At the time, The Washington Post also reported that it had received a letter from Weinstein. The letter, which was also posted on the website of the SITE Intelligence group, described his background doing human rights work. The letter said that before becoming a consultant in 2003, Weinstein had worked as a college professor at the State University of New York - Oswego, as a Peace Corps country director in Togo and Ivory Coast and for USAID and the World Bank. ``I hope that the media can mount a campaign to get the American government to actively pursue my release and to make sure that I am not forgotten and just become another statistic,'' the letter said. ``Given my age and my health I don't have time on my side.''. Weinstein's wife's statement on Thursday thanked some but also blasted the governments of the United States and Pakistan for not doing more to help her husband. While Maryland members of Congress -- Rep. John Delaney, Sen. Barbara Mikulski and Sen. Ben Cardin -- and members of the FBI were ``relentless'' in efforts to free her husband, she said others in the U.S. government were ``inconsistent and disappointing over the course of 3 1/2 years.''. ``We hope that my husband's death and the others who have faced similar tragedies in recent months will finally prompt the U.S. government to take its responsibilities seriously and establish a coordinated and consistent approach to supporting hostages and their families,'' she said. Pakistani government and military officials also should have done more, she said. ``Warren's safe return should have been a priority for them based on his contributions to their country, but they failed to take action earlier in his captivity when opportunity presented itself, instead treating Warren's captivity as more of an annoyance than a priority,'' she said. ``I hope the nature of our future relationship with Pakistan is reflective of how they prioritize situations such as these.''. But ultimately, she said her husband's captors are the ones responsible for his death. ``I can assure you that he would still be alive and well if they had allowed him to return home after his time abroad working to help the people of Pakistan,'' she said. ``The cowardly actions of those who took Warren captive and ultimately to the place and time of his death are not in keeping with Islam and they will have to face their God to answer for their actions.''. Opinion : Could Weinstein have been saved ?. CNN's Elise Labott, Jim Sciutto and Pamela Brown contributed to this report.
Rome ( CNN ) Italy is coping with a rising wave of desperate migrants from Africa and Middle East hoping to make it to Europe. From Friday to Monday, a total of 8,480 migrants were rescued, according to the Italian coast guard, which said it received on Monday -- alone -- SOS calls from 20 boats in distress. On Tuesday, a spokesman with Save the Children told CNN the group fears 400 migrants could be missing, citing testimony from survivors who said their ship carrying 550 people capsized in the Mediterranean Sea about 80 miles off the Libyan coast. The Italian coast guard, however, told CNN that while it is taking the report seriously, it can not confirm such an incident and has not yet found evidence at sea to indicate a migrant boat carrying approximately 550 has capsized with 145 rescued. An operation that included boats and planes did not find any survivors, nor bodies, nor any evidence to indicate a particular boat capsized, Coast Guard official Filippo Marini said. There has been a recent upsurge in migrant boats crossing the Mediterranean into Italy and an increase in rescues performed by the Italian Coast Guard to aid migrant boats. Why migrants are dying trying to reach Italy. According to the International Organization for Migration, Italy registered more than 10,000 migrants arriving in the first three months of 2015, and about 2,000 were rescued at sea during the first weekend of April in the Channel of Sicily. Most migrants recorded this year come from countries in West Africa as well as Somalia and Syria, the IOM said. They use Libya as a country of transit. At least 480 migrants have died while crossing the Mediterranean since the beginning of the year, often because of bad weather and overcrowded vessels used by smugglers, the IOM said. Sometimes the captains and crews abandon the ships, leaving passengers to fend for themselves. Last week : 978 migrants rescued in one day in Mediterranean Sea. CNN's Ralph Ellis contributed to this report.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) The clamor and chaos of the previous day has dissipated by the time we arrive at Kathmandu's only airport. The mad rush of 24 hours previously, in those first confusing, cacophonous hours following the 7.8-magnitude earthquake near the Nepali capital, had died down. Now, families sit, camped out, silent and patiently waiting, but for now abandoned. At the airport, at passport control, we meet a Nepalese man, who is unable to contact his family. They live in a village 20 km from the epicenter. He also has two cousins on Everest, he says. He has no way to reach any of them. Follow the latest coverage of Nepal earthquake. Stepping out of the terminal building, the devastation is apparent. It is an overwhelming introduction to this city that, less than 48 hours ago, was hit by the worst earthquake this country has experienced in 80 years. The death toll has skipped past 3,000 and climbs, inexorably. Taking into account the fact that many rural areas, just as badly affected but isolated and vulnerable, have yet to be evaluated, the human cost is staggering. Across town the bus station is a hive of activity as scores try urgently to leave the city, to make it out to the outlying areas so badly affected by this quake. Communications are down and so many here are desperate to make it out to their stricken families, and discover their fate. The scene is repeated at every gas station ; snaking lines of Indian-made Tata cars, and motorcycles, waiting to fill up. People are clambering aboard buses, into cars, trying to get as far away from this devastation as possible. Remaining inside Kathmandu, neighbors stare forlornly at their former homes, now collapsed piles of rubble. We visit a Montessori school, mercifully empty as the children had the Saturday off. A seven-story building behind it, however, was home to a small church, and housed a congregation of between 40 and 50 when tragedy occurred. The pastor's son Nakul Tamang clambers up a ladder, looking for an entrance into the ruined facade, looking to retrieve his father, not knowing if he will find him alive or dead. Rescue teams stop him before he reaches the top. The building is not secure, but Tamang doesn't care. ``It's sad, it's hard,'' he says. Six bodies had already been pulled from the concrete and steel wreckage. A nearby five-story structure has collapsed in on itself. It was pink, with wrought balconies. Now it is pancaked, reduced to a third of its height and a mess of rubble and reinforced steel. One woman has been pulled out of the wreckage, and rescuers continue to work in a precarious hollow scooped out from the fallen bricks. Officials tell the onlookers that there is a chance that survivors may have been protected in a corridor as the building came down around them. A day after the earthquake struck, they found a woman under the rubble. Unhurt ; in shock, but alive. It is this hope that keeps Narayan Gurung going : the belief that his wife and 7-year-old are still alive. ``I raced here after the earthquake. I haven't slept for days,'' he says. Workers dig painstakingly, slowly removing piles of stone and debris. They spot someone's hair, but can't yet reach the body or tell if it's male or female. Wherever there is rubble in this city, there is a police or military presence. They are not necessarily commanding the digs but they keep onlookers from getting too close, or directing traffic as best they can. For their part, the onlookers look shell shocked -- there is little outpouring of grief, no sobbing or wailing, but rather a solemn, dazed, collective sense of disbelief. Tundikhel Park was, just two days ago, a vast, open green oasis in the city, but is now a mess of tents. Some have made their own, the army is setting up others. Metal bleacher-style seating has been set up, with dozens of people sitting, waiting, makeshift blue tarp tents pitched underneath. People bring in fresh fruit, and there are water sellers -- although clean bottled water is becoming hard to to find. People queue endlessly for food and water. There is a mobile government field hospital here, and those treated wait listlessly outside, a collection of crushed hands, broken legs, strapped ankles. One little boy was hit by a falling brick. ``I felt something like a fire, and I ran, and then something hurt me a lot.'' he says. ``I am still scared.''. And so is everybody else : those who survived clinging to those they love. Arwa Damon and Gul Tuysuz reported from Nepal, while Euan McKirdy wrote from Hong Kong.
( CNN ) On July 20, 2012, excited moviegoers gathered for a midnight screening of ``The Dark Knight Rises'' at the Century Aurora 16 Multiplex Theater in Aurora, Colorado. Eighteen minutes into the show, and shortly after midnight, a gunman opened fire on the audience. Twelve people were killed and 70 were injured. On Monday, shooting suspect James Holmes goes on trial for 165 counts, including murder and attempted murder charges. He has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. It's a moment the survivors and those who lost loved ones have waited for anxiously. It's a moment that will be a painful next step toward healing and one that will no doubt bring back a flood of painful memories. Ahead of the trial, CNN spoke with several people whose lives were changed because of the shooting. They will attend at least part of the trial. Pierce O'Farrill made a last-minute decision to go to the movies with a friend. O'Farrill was shot multiple times and collapsed as he tried to escape. The shooter stood above him, and O'Farrill prepared to die. Then, the gunman moved in another direction. O'Farrill soon saw an officer who told him he was going to make it. Kaylan Bailey attended the movie with her cousin, Jamison, his girlfriend, Ashley, and their daughter, Veronica. Kaylan, just 13 at the time, babysat 6-year-old Veronica often. She had watched her earlier in the day when Ashley, who was pregnant, had an appointment for an ultrasound. When she heard gunfire, Kaylan made a heartrending 911 call. Ashley, Jamison and Veronica had all been shot. Veronica was the youngest to die in the theater. Ashley was paralyzed and later suffered a miscarriage because of the trauma she suffered. Jamison was shot in the head and survived. Tom and Caren Teves lost their son, Alex, who was in the theater with his girlfriend. When the shooting began, Alex shielded his girlfriend, saving her life and absorbing the bullets that would take his. The Teveses remember Alex as someone who was fearless, funny and gave the greatest hugs. ``The world had a great person taken out of it that could've done so much more,'' Caren Teves said. The Teveses launched a campaign called ``No Notoriety'' to challenge the media to not show photos or use the name of the shooter. Marcus Weaver was at the movies with his friend, Rebecca Wingo. As the gunman opened fire, Marcus and Rebecca dropped to the ground. During a break in the gunshots, Marcus tried to get to the exit, taking Rebecca, who was unconscious, with him. The shots started again and it was chaos. Marcus had been hit in the shoulder with buckshot, but he made it to an exit. Rebecca didn't make it out alive. Weaver remembers her as a bright and shining person with a contagious smile. Here, in their own words, is a glimpse at what these people are experiencing 2 1/2 years after the shooting and as the trial begins. O'Farrill : ``I don't think the shooting has defined me as a person. But I think what I've learned from it, the strength that I've gained from overcoming something this terrible, has become a defining factor of my life.''. Bailey : ``I would say that the theater shooting is life-changing, but I don't think it defines me.''. Caren Teves : ``The ripple effect from this whole tragedy is just endless. It goes on and on and on.''. Tom Teves : ``People start to shy away from you, too. Because it's just too painful. And they're afraid of the fact that you're a window into the fact that evil exists. Because you're proof that evil exists, not in your persona but in what happened to your child.''. Weaver : ``And so as you ask about life, how I see it, I just see it in a different lens. And it took a while to get used to that lens. Because I couldn't do the same thing I did before. I just wasn't that person anymore. I rarely go out to restaurants and stuff. Because, you know, people come up to you and start talking about it... ``I don't think anybody who was in that theater that night will ever be the same.''. O'Farrill : ``We woke up today, we got out of bed ; this was the day that the Lord promised us. But he certainly hasn't promised us that.. we'll live to see another one. So for me, just living in gratitude and being grateful for every moment I get has been key to my healing.''. Caren Teves : ``It doesn't get any easier. You just learn to fake it better.. You get stronger carrying the weight.''. Weaver :''.. just like my arm's going to heal, so will I. And we'll all move past this. And we'll get stronger.''. O'Farrill : ``I do hope to meet him someday. It's something that's been on my heart since the shooting happened. And I hope to meet him and just tell him in person, `Look, you know, you tried to kill me but I don't hate you, and I forgive you. And there's only one way that's possible and that's through Jesus.'''. Bailey : ``No, I don't forgive him. He took so many people's lives, and he hurt so many other people that weren't even in the theater. He hurt families and friends and just everybody in Aurora, honestly.''. Caren Teves : ``As far as forgiveness goes -- normally, I will forgive someone who asks for forgiveness. In this case, I haven't had anyone ask for forgiveness.''. Tom Teves : ``God will forgive anyone who asks for forgiveness. But that also means that you have to stand up and take responsibility for your actions.''. Weaver : ``There's no doubt about it. I forgive him. I really don't even think about him that much at this point.. I just didn't want to carry that bag of rocks on my back anymore.''. O'Farrill : ``The trial starting, I think, will kind of stir things up. And it's been something I've really been trying to prepare myself for, you know. Talking to my counselor about it and praying on it daily, and understanding that, again, I can't control how it all unfolds, you know. But I can be prepared for it.''. Bailey : ``I've never been involved in something so serious. I don't think it's hit me. I don't think I realize what I'm going into.''. Tom Teves : ``It doesn't bring these emotions to the surface again for us. These emotions never leave for us.''. Weaver : ``You start thinking about being on that stand. You start thinking about seeing the shooter right there. You start thinking about -- just all kinds of things and what's it going to be like. And it just races in your head, if you let it, you know ? So part of the coping skills is you just don't let it. Go do something different. Go exercise. Go hang out with your wife.''. O'Farrill : ``Whatever punishment James Holmes receives is not going to be part of my closure. I certainly understand that other folks are looking forward to that and that's their path. But we all have different paths to healing.''. Bailey : ``So, like, I don't think that if he does get the death penalty, then, I'll, I don't know how to word this. I won't be happy because that's another person's life. But I think he deserves it.''. Caren Teaves : ``The only justice, for me.. is if that thing was in an urn on my dresser, and Alex was sitting next to us on this couch. That's the only justice.''. Weaver : ``Although I'm not a death penalty person, if the death penalty was ever warranted in any case, it's this case.''
( CNN ) Gunshots were fired at rapper Lil Wayne's tour bus early Sunday in Atlanta. No one was injured in the shooting, and no arrests have been made, Atlanta Police spokeswoman Elizabeth Espy said. Police are still looking for suspects. Officers were called to a parking lot in Atlanta's Buckhead neighborhood, Espy said. They arrived at 3:25 a.m. and located two tour buses that had been shot multiple times. The drivers of the buses said the incident occurred on Interstate 285 near Interstate 75, Espy said. Witnesses provided a limited description of the two vehicles suspected to be involved : a ``Corvette style vehicle'' and an SUV. Lil Wayne was in Atlanta for a performance at Compound nightclub Saturday night. CNN's Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
New Delhi, India ( CNN ) As the earth shook in Nepal, tremors were felt over the border in India as well. It was a call to action : Within hours of the first 7.8 magnitude quake, India began planning a massive cross-border aid mission. With each hour, the scale of the devastation in Nepal became clearer -- some 3,862 people are known to have died so far -- and plans in India, where 72 people were also killed, got bigger. On Sunday alone, India delivered 187 tons of supplies, including 50 tons of water, 22 tons of food and 2 tons of medicine. And there will be more to come. Hundreds of trained disaster relief troops landed in Kathmandu and quickly got to work. With each flight in, there was a flight back out, packed with Indians and other nationals escaping to safety : 2,000 and counting have fled so far. By Monday, India was in full-scale crisis mode : From airports across India, planes flew in loaded with aid, and trucks made the trip by land from India's east, aiming for more remote areas. On the ground : Devastation in Nepal. India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made a special effort over Nepal. He has visited the country twice in his first year in office. And on Sunday, in his national radio address to the nation, he said Indians needed to ``wipe the tears of every Nepali, hold their hands, and stand with them.''. It all highlights the more proactive role taken by India in recent months. Just weeks ago, India flexed its military muscle to rescue Indians and other nationals from conflict-torn Yemen. Now, it is taking the lead in Nepal. Some might say India's friendship is a signal for the other big country that shares a border with Nepal : China. A display of hard power, perhaps to achieve enduring soft power in the region. But in times like this, help is always welcome. First there's the immediate search and rescue operation, and then the long process of rebuilding work. Nepal will need India's friendship -- as well as China's -- for many long months ahead.
( CNN ) Please, not even a demonstration. Freddie Gray's family had asked there be quiet on Baltimore's streets the day they laid him to rest. And above all, no violence. Raging hordes turned a deaf ear to that on Monday. But a handful of people repeated the family's message. They became criers in the desert against countless young people flinging rocks at police, breaking windows, looting and setting fires. The peacemakers -- clergy, Gray's family and brave residents -- placed themselves in the rioters' way. Their message was the same. ``I want them all to go back home,'' said Rev. Jamal Bryant. ``It's disrespect to the family. The family was very clear -- we've been saying it all along -- today there was absolutely no protest, no demonstration,'' he said. But the messengers were a finger in a dam that quickly crumbled, as rowdy groups swelled into a full urban riot. It overshadowed the message peaceful protesters delivered on prior days -- justice for Gray. The 25-year-old African-American man died from spinal injuries after being arrested earlier this month. The early fits of violence came in the afternoon, about the time mourners left Gray's memorial services blocks away, Rev. Bryant said. They bumped right into it. ``For us to come out of the burial and walk into this is absolutely inexcusable,'' he said. He did not want to see it spread to downtown Baltimore, where some rioters said it would, and organized people to stand in the way. ``We have a line of gentlemen from the Nation of Islam to build a human wall, as well as men from the Christian church making that human wall,'' he said. But as crowds turned into multitudes, the intervention became a drop in the bucket by compare, and police lines were also no match. As officers in riot gear receded, flames engulfed cars and stores and roared out of apartment buildings into the night sky. A senior living facility under construction by a Baptist church burned to the ground. The blazes stretched the fire departments' resources, as at least 30 trucks deployed. Looters streamed into a CVS, bodegas and liquor stores and walked out with what they could carry. A young man in a blue sweatshirt tried to talk people down by himself. He walked up to CNN correspondent Miguel Martinez, as a store nearby was being looted. It later went up in flames. The man, who didn't say his name, was disgusted at what was happening in his neighborhood and disappointed in the police response to rioting. There was a line of police down the street, not far away. ``They could have moved down here to stop it,'' he told Martinez. The Gray family's lawyers, again, put the family's wish out to the public that there be no protests that day, let alone violence. It's marring the cause and hope for change that may have come out of the investigation into Freddie Gray's death, said family attorney Mary Koch. ``That's just disintegrated into just looking at Baltimore city and thinking that the city is the city of violence,'' she said. Against all odds, a handful of individuals kept trying to stop it. A tall, adult man walked up to a young man who was confronting riot police. He slung an arm over his shoulder, turned him back around in the other direction and marched him away from police lines. But as they strolled past a crowd, a young man behind them hurled a stone at police, putting his whole body into the throw. At least one young man paid the price for his participation, when his mother turned up to spank him home. Before running cameras, she slapped him in the head again and again, driving him away from the crowd, as she cursed. Police Commissioner Anthony Batts later thanked her. ``I wish I had more parents that took charge of their kids out there tonight,'' he said. After night fell, giving way to a 10 p.m. curfew for juveniles, Robert Valentine stood alone with his back to a line of police in riot gear. He shooed away young people tempted to approach them. ``Go ! Step your -- ss away !''. ``I'm just a soldier,'' said Valentine. He told CNN's Joe Johns that he was a veteran of the Vietnam War. Young people had no business on the streets, he said. ``They need to be in their home units studying and doing something with their lives.''. Even Baltimore members of the Crips and Bloods, two street gangs renowned for drug dealing and extensive violent crime -- and for killing each other -- came together with others who condemned the rage that swept through their neighborhoods. ``The guys who pulled me aside are self-identifying as Crips and say they don't approve of whats happening. `This is our community,''' wrote Baltimore Sun reporter Justin Fenton on his confirmed Twitter account. Gangs members joined community leaders and Gray's family for a press conference Monday night on the stage at New Shiloh Baptist Church, which had held Gray's funeral. An announcer thanked them for coming to the church. The gangs have signed a peace deal and are uniting to push against police lines in protests, according to a report by the Daily Beast. Rev. Bryant also mentioned their peace treaty. But police say the gangs' purpose goes much further -- that they and another gang called the Black Guerilla Family plan to `take out' law enforcement officers, police said. ``This is a credible threat.''. The gangs are consistently pursued by the FBI. At the end of the day, Gray's family had the last word on the violence at the press conference. It wasn't good. ``To see that it turned into all this violence and destruction, I am appalled,'' said Richard Shipley, Gray's stepfather. ``I want y' all to get justice for my son, but don't do it like this here,'' said Gray's mother Gloria Darden, who wore a T-shirt with her son's photo. ``I don't think that's for Freddie,'' his twin sister Fredericka Gray said. ``I think the violence is wrong.''. After their comments, Gray family lawyer William H. Murphy took the microphone. Violence is not the path to change, he said. Then he got back to the message than had been bitterly marred by the rioting. Murphy asked for a show of hands in the church audience of people who had experienced police brutality or personally knew someone who did. All but a few hands went up.
( CNN ) A mom furious at her son for apparently taking part in the Baltimore riots has become a sensation online. In video captured by CNN affiliate WMAR, the woman is seen pulling her masked son away from a crowd, smacking him in the head repeatedly, and screaming at him. As he tries to walk away, she follows him, screaming, ``Get the f -- over here !''. Eventually, he turns toward her, his face no longer covered. The boy is dressed in dark pants and a black hoodie, with a dark backpack on. WMAR reports that the woman saw her son on television throwing rocks at police. The name of the woman dressed in light blue jeans, a yellow lace tunic and a cropped yellow jacket was not immediately known. But Police Commissioner Anthony Batts thanked her in remarks to the media. ``And if you saw in one scene you had one mother who grabbed their child who had a hood on his head and she started smacking him on the head because she was so embarrassed,'' he said Monday. ``I wish I had more parents that took charge of their kids out there tonight.''
( CNN ) A professor at Texas A&M Galveston said in an email to his strategic management students that they were a disgrace, that they lacked maturity -- and that he would fail the entire class. Irwin Horwitz, an instructional associate professor in the university's department of maritime administration, told CNN affiliate KPRC that he had finally reached a breaking point. ``Enough was enough,'' Horwitz said. ``It became apparent that they couldn't do just some of the most simple and basic things that they should've been able to do at that point.''. In the email to students, KPRC reported, Horwitz said : ``I have seen cheating, been told by students to `chill out,' `get out of my space,' `go back and teach' refuse to leave the room after being told to do so following inappropriate conduct, called a `f ***** g moron' several times by a student to my face..'' Horwitz added that students spread hurtful rumors about him, his wife and colleagues, and that he felt the need for police protection in class. John Shaw, a senior at Texas A&M Galveston and student in Horwitz's class, told KPRC he was worried about the job he has lined up after graduation. ``Just ridiculous, because, I mean, I had never had a problem in the class,'' Shaw said. ``I thought I had done pretty well, done pretty well on the first test and everything else that's going on. I get an email saying I am going to get an F in the class, and just kind of -- it was overwhelming.''. Texas A&M Galveston is a part of the Texas A&M University System ; its more than 2,000 students focus on marine and maritime studies. Patrick Louchouarn, the vice president for academic affairs and chief academic officer, told KPRC that the university will not necessarily stand by the failing grades Horwitz planned to hand out. University officials said the department head will take over teaching the strategic management class. ``None of them have failed until the end of the class, meaning the only reason a student would fail is because he or she hasn't performed the actual, you know, with the expectations for that particular class,'' Louchouarn said. University officials have not yet responded to CNN's request for comment.
Washington ( CNN ) An off-duty member of the Uniformed Division of Secret Service was arrested Friday in Washington and charged with first-degree attempted burglary, a felony, and one misdemeanor count for destruction of property, the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department reported. Arthur Baldwin, 29, was arrested at a woman's residence in Southeast Washington, according to documents provided by the police department. He has been placed on administrative leave and his security clearance has been suspended, the Secret Service said. Baldwin is assigned to the Foreign Missions Branch, according to U.S. Secret Service Spokesman Brian Leary. That branch is responsible for working with the diplomatic community in Washington. A police officer went to a residence about 12:24 a.m. after receiving a call about a burglary in progress, police documents said. The officer found the front door with broken hinges, boot prints and two broken windows, the documents say. The woman who lives there told the officer, ``My ex-boyfriend won't leave me alone.''. While the D.C. Metropolitan Police officer was at the scene, Baldwin drove up, said he was a police officer and asked to speak with the woman, the police document said. When asked if he kicked in the door, Baldwin said, ``I kicked the door but did not.. break the windows,'' the document said. When a CNN reporter asked for a comment Friday during an arraignment, Baldwin said, ``No, you'll get me in trouble.''. His next court date is April 23. The U.S. Attorney's Office said the charge of attempted first-degree burglary carries a sentence of up to five years in prison. The charge of destruction of property carries a sentence of up to 180 days in jail and/or a fine of up to $ 1,000. RELATED : Secret Service supervisor accused of making unwanted sexual advances. The incident comes as the Secret Service is trying to mend its reputation after numerous issues concerning the discipline and professionalism of its officers have come to light recently. More specifics on this incident were not yet available. Leary also said the Secret Service's ``Office of Professional Responsibility will investigate this matter.''
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) More than 4,600 people dead. More than 9,000 injured. Eight million affected across Nepal. One million children urgently in need of help. Those are the startling numbers that indicate the scale of the devastation from the huge earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on Saturday. And some of the grim figures are likely to get even worse as hopes of rescuing any more survivors diminish every hour. Heartbreaking scenes of suffering and loss are playing out across this shell-shocked nation as it reels from its deadliest natural disaster in more than 80 years. As the country coped with the fallout of the quake, another natural disaster struck Tuesday afternoon in a popular trekking area north of Kathmandu, and up to 200 people were feared missing as a result of a landslide, a trekking association official said. It happened around 4 p.m. in Langtang National Park, said Ramesh Dhamala, president of the Trekking Agents of Nepal. Laxmi Dhakal, spokesman for Nepal's Home Ministry, said he was aware of reports about the landslide but wasn't immediately able to confirm details. Quake relief efforts continued Tuesday, but officials warned that they were hampered by problems of getting aid into the country and then delivering it to some of the remote communities in desperate need. In Kathmandu, a capital city of shattered temples and toppled houses, some people paid their last respects to loved ones taken by the quake. By the Bagmati River, which winds through the city, more than a dozen funeral pyres burned Monday. As workers stoked the flames for the Hindu cremation ceremonies, some mourners shaved their heads in a traditional show of mourning from children who lose their parents. Alongside their father, two teenage brothers from the Gurung family, Ishan and Iman, said goodbye to their mother, Ishara. ``We never imagined this would happen to us. This much pain,'' said Ishan, the elder of the two. Elsewhere in the city, many shaken residents are sleeping in the open. Some have lost their homes, others are afraid to stay in buildings that may be vulnerable to aftershocks. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the city that is typically used for parades. One of the grand gates to the field is now just a pile of rubble. Kisnor Raj Giri, a 22-year-old man from Kathmandu who lost members of his extended family in the quake, said he was too scared to return home. He is camping out at the military grounds with thousands of others even though frequent rain has made the nights an ordeal. ``Many people are crying, sharing their hardships,'' he told CNN on Monday evening. The elements showed no mercy to the homeless masses on Tuesday as thunderstorms rumbled over Kathmandu. More bad weather is forecast for the region in the coming days. But in one piece of good news, Turkish and Chinese rescue crews helped pull free a 21-year-old man trapped under rubble near a city bus park in a 13-hour rescue operation. Houses and families ripped apart by earthquake. The death toll has now climbed above 4,600 in Nepal, officials said Tuesday evening, as rescue and relief efforts continue. Nepal army Lt. Col. A. J. Thapa told CNN's Sumnima Udas that the first 72 hours after the earthquake is the time when the most lives can be saved. ``This is not the time to rest and lament,'' he said. ``This is the time to go out and save lives.''. Thapa said an entire military post was lost during an avalanche. ``Remember we are not an outside force that has been parachuted into an area to help,'' he said. ``We are victim ourselves.. Despite the fact that soldiers have their families and houses are down, we are trying to build morale, maintain morale and help themselves.''. Thapa said it was fortunate that the quake struck during daylight on a weekend. ``Children were not trapped in big schools somewhere and lot of people were outside because it was daytime,'' he said. Dhakal, the Home Ministry spokesman, put the death toll at 4,620, while Nepal's National Emergency Coordination Center said the number of dead was 4,727. Both sources gave the number of people injured as 9,239. Another 72 people died in India, while China reported 25 deaths. Most of the casualty numbers in Nepal are believed to have come mainly from Kathmandu and the surrounding area. They are expected to climb as information emerges from remote areas. ``We have incomplete information, but we apprehend the death toll will go up,'' Nepalese Information Minister Minendra Rijal told CNN earlier on Tuesday. ``We can not say by how much exactly.''. The news agency Reuters cited Prime Minister Sushil Koirala as saying that the toll could reach 10,000 and that the country was ``on a war footing'' in its rescue and relief work. In a live, televised address to the nation, the Prime Minister said the country had been stunned by the disaster and announced three days of national mourning, starting Tuesday. The government's first priority is to continue search and rescue operations and relief efforts, he said, as he thanked all those involved. Historic and religious monuments destroyed by the earthquake will be reconstructed in time, he added. At least 90 % of 96,000 Nepali army troops have been deployed in relief and rescue operations, according to Nepal army spokesman Jagadish Chandra Pokharel. More than 15 countries and agencies have already promised help, Koirala said, as he appealed for other nations also to come to Nepal's aid. Even as international aid pours into the country, overwhelmed hospitals are lacking vital medical supplies, people remain buried in the wreckage of buildings and rescuers are struggling to reach hard-hit rural areas near the quake's epicenter. ``The biggest problem is reaching these villages,'' Matt Darvas, an emergency communications officer for the humanitarian group World Vision, told CNN from Gorkha district, northwest of Kathmandu. Nepal struggles to cope with international aid. Nepali Home Ministry Joint Secretary Sagar Mani Parajuli, who is coordinating relief efforts, said government efforts to get aid to remote areas had been hampered by rugged terrain and poor weather, which limits the use of helicopters. ``The helicopters are small. They don't fly in windy and cloudy conditions. Given Nepal's geographical terrain, we can not use surface transport much but are using it,'' he said. ``We need 150,000 tents and tarpaulins, but we don't have enough of them.''. Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator for Nepal, told a news conference Tuesday that bringing in relief materials has been difficult because Kathmandu's international airport, which has just one runway and space for only a limited number of aircraft to park, is log jammed. The United Nations is aware of the request for tents, he said, but is working to procure high quality ones to withstand the expected monsoon rains. Of the 8 million people affected by the quake across 39 districts of Nepal, some 1.4 million need food aid, McGoldrick added. Nepal's population is about 31 million. At an event in Paris, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed his condolences to the people of Nepal and called the humanitarian needs ``huge and urgent.''. ``The United Nations is supporting international operations for search and rescue and strengthening relief efforts,'' he said. ``I count on the generosity of the international community in Nepal's hour of need and the longer term rebuilding efforts that will be needed.''. A CNN team that joined a Nepalese military helicopter flight to Dhulikhel, a rural area east of Kathmandu, saw extensive damage in the Kathmandu Valley from the air, including many landslides. On landing, the team went to a hospital where all the injured from six surrounding districts are being brought. More than 1,000 people are currently in the hospital -- three times its usual capacity -- so some of the injured are being left out in the streets. Social media posts from Nepal. Darvas of World Vision said he had been told of frightening levels of damage in villages in the region surrounding Gorkha district, which is near the earthquake's epicenter. They included one where 35 out of 45 homes were destroyed and another where 70 % of the houses had collapsed, trapping and crushing the people inside, most of them children and the elderly. Even though aid groups and Nepalese officials are aware of critical situations in areas spread across Nepal's mountainous terrain, they face daunting challenges getting help to them. ``Some of those villages -- several years ago, before there was vehicle transport -- used to take seven days to reach. Roads are shut now to some of those villages, so we can only imagine how long it will take to get there,'' Darvas said Monday. He said injured people who had been airlifted from some remote areas were often suffering from crush injuries, lacerations and dislocations. Looking for missing loved ones in Nepal ? CNN iReport wants to help. UNICEF, the U.N. children's agency, said Sunday that nearly 1 million Nepalese children urgently need assistance. Aid groups and at least 16 nations rushed aid and workers to Nepal, with more on the way. High-altitude rescue efforts have also been undertaken on the difficult terrain of Mount Everest, where the earthquake released deadly avalanches. Four U.S. citizens are among those who died on Everest, according to officials and relatives. Damage to climbing infrastructure on the mountain, not to mention the overall situation in Nepal, means the climbing season is over for the year, climber Jim Davidson told CNN from the Everest base camp, where he was evacuated after spending two days on the mountain. China has canceled all climbs on its side of the mountain, the official news agency Xinhua reported. Are you in Nepal or do you have loved ones affected ? Please share with us if you are in a safe place. How to help the earthquake victims. Fast facts on earthquakes. CNN's Ivan Watson and Tim Hume reported from Kathmandu ; CNN's Jethro Mullen wrote and reported from Hong Kong, and Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London. CNN's Elizabeth Joseph, Pamela Boykoff, Manesh Shrestha, Sumnima Udas, Kristie Lu Stout, Anjali Tsui, Kunal Sehgal and Ingrid Formanek also contributed to this report.
Ravi Opi, Kavre District, Nepal ( CNN ) By the time you reach the outskirts of Nepal's capital, even the roads are showing signs of the sheer magnitude of this earthquake -- and the enormity of the task awaiting a country struggling to come to terms with devastation and tragedy. The main highway that heads east out of Kathmandu shows massive cracks, the tarmac torn apart by the force of Saturday's huge tremor. One lane is bisected by gaping, half-meter ( 1.5 feet ) fissures. They've been filled in with rubble and dirt, allowing passage for those desperate citizens to reach their families in outlying districts. It takes an age, though, picking our way along damaged roads to a small village community, Ravi Opi. It is only 30 kilometers ( 20 miles ) east of Kathmandu but the journey takes almost two hours -- and the travel times likely to be compounded the farther out from the city people go. The community is off the main highway, down a dirt track that quickly finds itself winding through forested slopes and terraced fields. They farm corn here, and millet, and vegetables. Compared to the capital, and the regions west of Kathmandu and closer to the epicenter, the people here were relatively lucky. Still, passing through villages it's clear that damage has been suffered. In Ravi Opi a village official walks quickly by, telling us over his shoulder that 90 % of the houses are currently uninhabitable. Some are still standing, but seem precarious and the residents are too scared of aftershocks to move back inside. Patchy reports have filtered through of entire villages leveled by the quake or engulfed by landslides. Maili Tamang, 62, is alive, but surveys the desolation the quake has wreaked on her life. We find her sitting as close as she can to the ruins of the house that she built with her late husband. She's petite and frail but hardened by life. Her leg, bandaged and suppurating, is stretched out in front of her. She periodically flicks at the flies that have settled on the blood - and pus-soaked dressing. ``I just want to cry, all I feel is hurt'' she says, showing us where she was the moment the earthquake struck. Tamang's house was one of the bigger ones in this region, a rare two-story structure. She and her husband built it together, a lifetime ago. He died years ago, but her extended family lived here with her until Saturday. She, along with her daughter-in-law were indoors when the quake struck, and she was lucky to make it out onto a small wooden balcony. Another tremor brought this down and she had to extricate herself from the rubble and crawl up an embankment. The younger woman, trapped in the wreckage after the roof fell in on her, eventually clawed her way out. She was transported by motorbike -- few here have motorized transportation ; most walk -- to a missionary hospital in a neighboring village, 12 kilometers ( 7.4 miles ) away from here. Now she is back, wondering what the next step for her is. Throughout this region, there have been small landslides and people have been industrious in clearing rubble from the roads. There is little sign of aid having made it out here. Out of necessity people are back working their fields. Near the road a family makes lunch in the open as their house was destroyed. Elsewhere in Ravi Opi, other unfortunate families count the cost of the disaster. Mahesh Koiraba, 31, lost his only daughter, Prati in the quake, who was killed as their house collapsed. She was 2 years old. He was working when the quake hit, tilling the fields like so many in Kavre, and ran back to his house after quickly realizing the force of the tremor. ``I started digging with my hands,'' he says, still very much in shock, but remembering his frantic efforts among the remains of his damaged home. ``And I saw her, blood was trickling from her mouth and she was covered in cuts.''. All he has left now is a picture in his phone ; a chubby-faced toddler, wearing oversized sunglasses. As rain starts falling -- soon turning into torrents and further hampering recovery efforts -- we huddle with four families who have been displaced. They're in a makeshift, ramshackle shelter, crowded with frightened people. I ask one of the young women, Osminda Koirale, with me if she has seen any sign of outside help. ``No, no government has any support for us. No one has come out to see that we're living like this.''. She said it was terrifying, and the future no less so. ``Our house is gone now. We don't know where we sit, what we eat. We don't have any clothes, all our clothes are inside. We can't go inside our houses.''. There was a creeping sense that the worst was over, until another powerful aftershock overnight. ``We are not safe.. we are so scared,'' Osminda tells me. And all this a mere 90 minutes drive from the capital. There are parts of Nepal so remote it takes days to reach under normal circumstances -- there are villages here that one can only reach on foot and it is those areas that were hardest hit. These are the places where aid has yet to arrive, and where no one really knows the full extent of human loss or how many tragedies like the one at this home have unfolded. Arwa Damon reported from Kavre District in Nepal and Euan McKirdy wrote from Hong Kong.
( CNN ) -LSB- Breaking news update, posted at 5:22 p.m. ET -RSB-. None of the girls rescued from raided Boko Haram camps in Nigeria has been identified thus far as among the missing Chibok girls, a high-ranking Nigerian army official said. The official did not rule out that captives from other Boko Haram camps that were raided might be girls abducted in April 2014 from a school in Chibok. The official said he would have the final word by day's end on Wednesday. -LSB- Previous story, posted at 4:52 p.m. ET -RSB-. Nigerian troops rescued 200 girls and 93 women Tuesday in the Sambisa Forest, the Nigerian Armed Forces announced on its official Twitter account. The armed forces could not immediately confirm if any of the rescued girls were among the 200 schoolgirls the militant group Boko Haram kidnapped in April 2014 from the village of Chibok. Military spokesman Maj. Gen. Chris Olukolade said the rescued girls and women are still being screened and none has spoken to their families yet. The 2014 mass abduction from Chibok led to an international social media movement, #BringBackOurGirls, to rescue them. Boko Haram, a militant Islamist group, has been kidnapping females for years and has hundreds in their custody. Nigerian troops also captured and destroyed three terrorist camps in the Sambisa Forest, the armed forces said. Chibok and the Sambisa Forest are both in the northeastern part of the country. Olukolade said troops are still combing the forest. In recent weeks, Nigerian troops and vigilantes moved into the Sambisa Forest, a known hideout for Boko Haram. Last Wednesday the troops had to retreat because of explosive devices Boko Haram planted in the forest, according to military sources and a vigilante who was with the troops. On Monday, troops re-entered the forest and on Tuesday afternoon they raided two Boko Haram camps and rescued scores of girls and women. Information about the fate of the kidnapped schoolgirls has been spotty and inconsistent, with some school officials giving conflicting figures for the number of girls who were abducted or escaped their captors. ``We have no idea where the Chibok girls are or were,'' CNN correspondent Christian Purefoy said Tuesday. The name Boko Haram translates to ``Western education is sin'' in the local Hausa language. The group has said its aim is to impose a stricter enforcement of Sharia law across Nigeria, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. CNN's Jennifer Z. Deaton contributed to this report. Journalist Aminu Abubakar reported from Hotoro, Kano, Nigeria and CNN's Ralph Ellis wrote from Atlanta.
( CNN ) A video shoot in Nepal for an Internet comedy series took a serious turn on Saturday as the earth began rumbling. The Nepali Pranksters were in the middle of shooting an episode for their hidden camera series when the magnitude-7.8 earthquake broke out. The team kept the camera rolling as they moved through the crowded streets, surveying destruction to homes and historic sites and capturing scenes of heroism and chaos. The Nepali Pranksters' videos show people's reactions to various ``pranks'' that challenge cultural norms. One video shows the pranksters walking up to strangers and taking their hands for a long, awkward, handshake ; another shows them complimenting men and women on their clothes and appearance, with mixed results. For their next prank based on Nepal's ban on plastic bags, Ashish Prasai and Akash Sedai were in Jawalakhel, Sedai said in an email to CNN. The town, in Lalitpur District, is home to Nepal's famed Central Zoo. The camera was rolling when they felt the ground shaking around 11:55 a.m., Sedai said. People started screaming and crying and vehicles came to a standstill as a building collapsed in the background. But earthquakes are a fact of life in Nepal, and ``we were still thinking it was a just a simple earthquake,'' Sedai said. They kept the camera rolling for 18 minutes as they traversed the streets full of crying and shouting people. They found homes destroyed, where people were pulling survivors out from piles of rubble. They stopped and talked to motorists, urging them to keep the streets clear for emergency vehicles, Sedai said. They continued filming as they made their way to to the historic Dharahara tower and Basantapur Durbar Square, a UNESCO world heritage site, where people crawled among the ruins. By then, they realized their country was in a ``very bad condition,'' Sedai said. The Nepali Pranksters made it through the first day of the earthquake, as did their families, Sedai said. But with aftershocks and crumbling infrastructure still posing threats, safety is a temporary state of mind right now in Nepal. ``We are scared.. Earthquakes waves are occurring now,'' he said. ``Hope we will be alive and the problem will get solved soon.''
Seoul ( CNN ) South Korea's Prime Minister Lee Wan-koo offered to resign on Monday amid a growing political scandal. Lee will stay in his official role until South Korean President Park Geun-hye accepts his resignation. He has transferred his role of chairing Cabinet meetings to the deputy prime minister for the time being, according to his office. Park heard about the resignation and called it ``regrettable,'' according to the South Korean presidential office. Calls for Lee to resign began after South Korean tycoon Sung Woan-jong was found hanging from a tree in Seoul in an apparent suicide on April 9. Sung, who was under investigation for fraud and bribery, left a note listing names and amounts of cash given to top officials, including those who work for the President. Lee and seven other politicians with links to the South Korean President are under investigation. A special prosecutor's team has been established to investigate the case. Lee had adamantly denied the allegations as the scandal escalated : ``If there are any evidence, I will give out my life. As a Prime Minister, I will accept Prosecutor Office's investigation first.''. Park has said that she is taking the accusations very seriously. Before departing on her trip to Central and South America, she condemned political corruption in her country. ``Corruption and deep-rooted evil are issues that can lead to taking away people's lives. We take this very seriously.''. ``We must make sure to set straight this issue as a matter of political reform. I will not forgive anyone who is responsible for corruption or wrongdoing.''. Park is in Peru and is expected to arrive back to South Korea on April 27. CNN's Paula Hancocks contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Robert Downey Jr. is making headlines for walking out of an interview with a British journalist who dared to veer away from the superhero movie Downey was there to promote. The journalist instead started asking personal questions about the actor's political beliefs and ``dark periods'' of addiction and jail time. Twitter, of course, is abuzz : Did journalist Krishnan Guru-Murthy go too far ? Must every interview be a license for a journalist to ask anything he'd like ?. From the start of the 7-minute television interview, it seems evident that Downey is not particularly interested in being there, even if being there was, ultimately, a benefit to him -- after all, he's promoting his latest film, ``Avengers : Age of Ultron.'' He grows increasingly agitated, even as the line of questioning remains on-topic ; his attitude, meanwhile, grew increasingly smug. His eyes glaze over as the reporter talks, he makes condescending comments and gestures that seem intended to intimidate and imply he's much smarter than Guru-Murthy, and he repeatedly looks toward his handler as if to say, ``Do I really have to sit here with this guy ?'' At one point, he makes fun of Guru-Murthy for seeming nervous, saying, ``Your foot is starting to jump a little bit. You better get to your next question.''. But it's after Guru-Murthy asks Downey whether he thinks he is ``free from all of that,'' referring to Downey's history of ``taking drugs, drinking'' that the building tension comes to a head. ``I'm sorry,'' says Downey, ``What are we doing ?'' To which Guru-Murthy replies, ``I'm just asking questions,'' which indeed was so. Downey has the right to refuse to answer the question, of course, but that's not what he does next. Instead, he throws the celebrity interview equivalent of a tantrum : He smiles arrogantly, says ``bye !'' and stands up to leave. He sure showed him !. It's true that we live in a culture where we feel we have the right to know everything about celebrities -- who they're dating, what they're eating, where they vacation, what they meant when they made that comment 10 years ago. Journalists often go too far, even if it's their job. And certainly not every journalist is good at his job. But while Downey may be understandably tired of answering questions about his past, questions that have been asked before, his business is our business. The entertainment industry is about entertaining people. As such, we tend to like to watch actors who seem like they want to be watched. This is why most celebrities, especially those with a big budget movie to promote, agree to interviews and seek out recognition in general. But when the recognition no longer serves them ? Then they want to bemoan it ?. What Downey seemed to misunderstand is that the interview format gives journalists the right to ask questions. That's what an interview is. He certainly can decline to answer questions he does not feel are appropriate, or even ones he simply doesn't feel like answering. But he does not have the right to be absolved for behavior that is rude, demeaning, and disrespectful -- even if he's a celebrity, and even if he felt uncomfortable or put-off. What the video shows is a movie star with a bullying streak. After he removes his microphone and his handlers begin hustling him out with kid gloves, the actor can not resist a parting shot. He turns to the reporter, being sure to look directly at the camera on the way, and says, ``You seem okay. It's just getting a little Diane Sawyer in here,'' followed by what sounds like, ``and you're kind of a schmuck.''. Downey might not have been ``in the mood'' to be questioned.. and those days, those moods, are understandable. We all have them. And yet in this case, that's, well, too bad. The actor has agreed to an interview as part of his job. He has agreed to engage in a conversation with another professional human being. Given the terms, he is not entitled to call all the shots. That he thinks he can is perhaps our own, celebrity-obsessed doing -- we revere the famous ; is it any surprise when they reveal that they, too, regard themselves as better than everyone else ?. But it's still on him.
( CNN ) A photo of a baby boy being pulled from the rubble of the Nepal earthquake has become the defining image of a disaster that has devastated the country. His tiny face is coated in dust from the debris that crashed around him as the earth shook on Saturday, April 25, killing more than 5,000 people and injuring at least twice as many more. His name is Sonit Awal, and he's just four months old. On Saturday, Sonit was at home in Muldhoka, Bhaktapur, east of the capital Kathmandu, when the 7.8-magnitude quake sent tremors through Nepal and neighboring countries, according to Kathmandu Today. The house collapsed, burying the child, leaving his father Shyam Awal frantically searching for him amid the rubble. A desperate Awal called the Nepalese Army, and they too scrambled through the dirt and debris until midnight, before giving up hope and leaving. Sonit's father had lost all hope of finding his son alive, the paper reported, until he heard faint cries from below. On Sunday morning, the soldiers returned and at 10 a.m they lifted Sonit clear of the fallen rocks, beams, bricks and dust that had trapped him for 22 hours. His rescuers held him high in their hands to the sun, though his eyes were still wedged tightly shut. Sonit's face was exposed during the whole ordeal, though a hooded top and shawl protected his head and body during the cold night spent under rubble. The baby was taken to Bhaktapur Hospital and found to be uninjured ;. His unlikely rescue provides some hope to a country that has experienced so much loss.
Washington ( CNN ) A new entry and a waiting game on the Democratic side, a go-slow approach from a leading Republican, and the big stakes of 2016 filled our Sunday morning trip around the ``Inside Politics'' table. 1. Here's.. Bernie !. Hillary Clinton is about to get her first official challenger. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont could make an announcement within days, reports CNN's Nia-Malika Henderson, adding a populist voice to a Democratic race that starts with Clinton as the overwhelming favorite. Sanders has been exploring a run for months, and was a hit this weekend at a big South Carolina Democratic event. ``I don't think he can necessarily challenge Hillary Clinton in terms of donors and in terms of organization,'' said Henderson. ``But in terms of bringing the heat, bringing the fire, bringing that populist rhetoric, he'll be interesting to see, and how he moves Hillary Clinton's own rhetoric as well.''. 2. For Biden, watch, wait and.. Few think Vice President Joe Biden is willing to risk a third losing bid for the Democratic presidential nomination. But his official word is that he is still looking at the race, and Julie Hirschfeld Davis of The New York Times reports that this ``wait and see'' approach is likely to continue for a bit. ``There is a strain of thinking that if Hillary Clinton's campaign is truly to implode at some point, that Democrats are going to need someone who can jump in quickly, raise a lot of money and have a lot of experience and launch a campaign,'' said Davis. ``And Joe Biden would not mind being the person they talk about as that person. So, and as long as we are talking about that, we are still talking about Joe Biden, and that's just the way he likes it.''. 3. Kasich also thinks waiting is best. Ohio Gov. John Kasich is more visible of late, and makes no secret of the fact that he thinks he is the most qualified among the potential Republican 2016 presidential prospects. But he isn't in a rush to make a formal declaration of candidacy. Some see this as hesitation. But Robert Costa of The Washington Post detailed a conversation with the Ohio governor in which Kasich made the case that he need not rush. ``He's not formally moving toward it right now,'' said Costa. ``But I don't think he feels a rush, because in this age of super PACs, it's more about building donor relationships, building relationships in the early states, then maybe getting in when you have a little momentum.''. 4. Listen to the candidates -- and be reminded of the high stakes. Personalities often trump policy in political coverage, especially in the early days of a campaign. But the old line ``elections have consequences'' gets repeated a lot because it just happens to be true. NPR's Steve Inskeep says the prospect of big changes was obvious as he did some recent homework about the 2016 race. ``Jeb Bush was asked this past week about President Obama'a executive actions on immigration, and he said on a conservative radio talk show, `Yes, of course I would reverse them,''' said Inskeep. ``So suddenly you are talking about millions of people who are on a path to be legalized for a while, now potentially on a path not to be legalized, depending on who wins an election.''. ``Doesn't mean they would go through with it. I think we all can recall President Obama's promise to close Guantanamo right away if he could just replace President Bush. But it certainly would color the campaign and the tenor of the campaign -- the huge changes that could lie in store depending on who wins.''. 5. Remember Sharron Angle ? The GOP establishment sure does !. Goal No. 1 for Republicans in 2016 is taking back the White House. But preserving their new Senate majority runs a close second -- and that will be no easy task, because so many of the competitive races are in states that tend to lean blue in presidential years. So the GOP establishment is putting a priority on candidate recruitment and hoping to build on its 2014 successes, which you might recall included an aggressive effort to discourage or defeat tea party candidates viewed as too risky by the establishment. So in Nevada, where Democrat Harry Reid is retiring, there is an intensifying effort to get Republican Rep. Joe Heck to declare his Senate candidacy. And in Colorado, the establishment favorite is Rep. Mike Coffman, who opened a lot of eyes with his 2014 race in a competitive swing district against a top-tier Democratic opponent. Those two states -- and those two seats -- have special significance in the 2016 maneuvering : Reid and Colorado Democrat Michael Bennet won narrow 2010 victories in what was for the most part a big GOP year. Ask the establishment why, and you will get a ton of finger-pointing at the tea party candidates who emerged as the GOP nominees -- Sharron Angle in Nevada and Ken Buck in Colorado.
Peshawar, Pakistan ( CNN ) Ten people have been sentenced to life in prison for their roles in the 2012 attack on Nobel Peace Prize-winning activist Malala Yousafzai, a judge announced Thursday. The assailant's conviction and sentences follow a trial that included testimony from both sides, according to Pakistani antiterrorism judge Mohammad Amin Kundi. The 10 were arrested in Swat, a district of Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistani army spokesman Maj. Gen. Asim Bajwa said last September. That was nearly two years after the then 15-year-old Yousafzai -- who was despised by Taliban militants for her outspoken support of girls' right to an education -- was shot as she was traveling home on a school bus. She not only survived that attack, but went on to become an even more vocal international activist. In fact, her efforts helped earn her the Nobel Peace Prize -- which she shared with India's Kailash Satyarthi -- last year. Malala at U.N. : The Taliban failed to silence us. Journalist Zahir Shah reported from Peshawar, and CNN's Greg Botelho wrote this story from Atlanta.
Melamchi, Nepal ( CNN ) Even from high above, flying in an Indian Air Force helicopter, it is easy to see that the people of Melamchi, central Nepal, are happy to see us. Residents in this remote village, about a 44km drive from Nepal's capital, Kathmandu, stand on the distinctive steeply terraced hillsides and wave furiously as the relief flight passes overhead. The mission, a joint effort between Indian air crew and a Nepalese army medical team, is only the third operation of its kind to reach the village since Saturday's massive 7.8-magnitude quake, which left more than 5,000 people dead. The aircraft is stuffed to capacity with tents, medicines and packages of tinned tuna, instant noodles and rice, all bundled haphazardly aboard the Mi-17 by soldiers at the air base in Kathmandu barely 15 minutes earlier. Local official Upendra Tamang is there to greet the helicopter as it touches down on a field in front of the village medical clinic, and waiting soldiers swing into action to unload the delivery. He says people have been desperately awaiting the supplies. The situation in Melamchi and the surrounding villages is ``dire,'' he tells CNN through a translator. According to Nepal's National Emergency Operation Center, 1,376 people were killed in Sindhupalchok District, where Melamchi is located, when the earthquake hit. Some 18,000 houses were destroyed and 100,000 people have been displaced in the surrounding area, says Tamang. ``Everyone is sleeping outside,'' he says. He has serious concerns about food supplies in the region, saying the piled boxes of rice and noodles aren't nearly enough to meet the needs of local people. ``Aid agencies need to do something very quickly,'' he says. In the days since the quake, injured people from the region have been told to find their way to Melamchi so they can be picked up by the relief flights, he says. They've sent about 500 of the most seriously injured people for treatment in Kathmandu already -- the majority by road -- but many more are stuck in a local clinic waiting for help. Seven of them, five women and two men, are suddenly driven onto the airfield in a truck and on the back of a pickup. Their injuries are not life-threatening, but they look to be in a bad state : bloodied, exhausted and traumatized. An elderly woman's face is covered in bandages that look like they haven't been changed in days. Another cries in pain as she is loaded on to a stretcher from the back of the pickup, then awkwardly hoisted on to the helicopter. Among the injured brought on board the flight is Forshani Tamang, accompanied by her son. He tells CNN their family lives in a village called Bachunde, where nearly all the houses were destroyed. He and other family members carried Forshani for four hours to reach Melamchi. With their home destroyed and their stores of grain lost, the family are in crisis. As the helicopter takes off for the capital, flying over a landscape dotted with collapsed buildings and bright orange tents, Nepalese army doctor Naveen Tiwari offers perhaps the only positive for those on board. The patients' injuries are mostly lacerations of varying degrees, he says. Their vital signs are all stable, and with antibiotics and intravenous drips, they should recover. When the helicopter touches down at Kathmandu airbase, the patients are swiftly unloaded and unceremoniously laid out on the tarmac in the emergency triage area in front of an aircraft hangar, and paramedics scramble to administer IV drips to those in need. As Forshani's son feeds her a cracker softened with water, the relief team turn to prepare for another mission. How you can help victims of the Nepal earthquakeNepal earthquake's victims overwhelm hospitals.
( CNN ) Thousands remain missing in Nepal after a devastating earthquake struck the region on Saturday. A majority of them are Nepalese, Indian and Chinese residents, but a handful are adventurers, trekkers and vacationers who have not been heard from since the catastrophe. Technology has played a huge role in helping families share their worries, ask for help and search for their missing loved ones. Several organizations, such as Google and the Red Cross, have published features about the missing on their websites. And on CNN iReport, dozens of people have filed reports pleading for information that might help them locate their missing friends and relatives. The death toll in Nepal is rising ; it has now surpassed more than 5,000. Though the news is mostly heartbreaking and worrisome, there have been stories of survival, of families reconnecting with loved ones days after the disaster. The walk of survival. After hearing about devastation in Nepal, Ahmed Shadmann of Bangladesh reached out to his nation's embassy in Nepal, made calls to old college contacts in South Asia and posted pleas on social media to help find his younger sister Raisaa Tashnova. Tashnova, 25, was with a group of friends at The Last Resort, a spa-like resort near the border with China. When the earthquake struck, she was getting ready for a group excursion, a canyon swing. She could see the ground splitting apart beneath her feet. What scared her most was seeing large boulders crashing down from the mountains above. She prayed she wouldn't be crushed. She ran from the toppling boulders and shielded herself. When the tremors subsided, Tashnova and her friends huddled together and camped on higher ground overnight, expecting to be rescued. When three days passed and no one came to their aid, the group decided to take their chances and leave the confines of the resort. The walk toward Kathmandu was treacherous. The roads near the resort were mostly blocked or in bad shape because of a landslide. But the worst part was the smell of rotting flesh, which permeated the air as she passed countless villages flattened by the quake. ``It was a walk of survival,'' she said. ``My brain refused to feel anything apart from putting one leg before the other until the mountains were left behind.''. Tashnova hiked six hours through mountainous terrain toward Nepal's capital. After navigating down tricky mountain slopes, she and her friends came across a village and hitched a ride on a local bus. She was able to connect with her family, nearly four days after the quake, from the airport in Kathmandu while waiting for the next flight to Bangladesh. She was exhausted. She hadn't showered or slept since before the quake. When Shadmann got the call from his sister, he said it felt fantastic. ``What was surprising is that her voice sounded very strong. It didn't seem like she had gone through a terrible episode in her life,'' he said. There was little information. Dr. Carol Pineda and her husband, Michael MacDonald, of Massachusetts, were vacationing in Nepal when the quake struck. Her brother, James Pineda, got news of the disaster from a friend. It wasn't until he heard the high casualty figures and reports about the avalanches that he started to get scared. He was prepared for the worst, knowing they were traveling to a Himalayan base camp in Nepal. But that was basically all he knew. James combed through what little information his sister left for him before the trip, but it didn't include the name of the tour group or the hotel where they were staying. He took to social media and started emailing and calling hiking groups that operated in Nepal, but no one was getting back to him. On Sunday, he managed to get inside his sister's apartment in Boston and find documents with information on the trekking company the pair were using. It wasn't until that evening, after emailing the company, that he got a short reply saying that his sister and her husband were safe. But that was all the information he had, and he wanted to hear directly from his sister, so he took to Twitter to see what other people were doing to track down loved ones. Several strangers who were in the same location as the couple responded to his inquiries on social media, saying they were fine. ``It was incredible to see people that were stranded themselves over there wanting to help me. At least now we knew they were safe,'' he said. On Monday, the couple left a voicemail for MacDonald's parents saying they were making their way to the Kathmandu in hopes of catching a flight out. Only one phone call left. Janaki Parajuli, a Nepalese tour guide, was busy Saturday morning, leading a tour group of 17 senior citizens -- nine Americans, five Canadians and three Nepalese -- from Kathmandu to Tibet. They had stopped for lunch at Liping village, just near the border, when the magnitude 7.8 quake struck. Once the tremors eased, Parajuli noticed that his cell phone had died. His connection with the outside world had vanished. Worse, he had a group of older travelers and a short supply of food and water. One American in the group had an international cell phone, but its battery was quickly dying. Unable to contact anyone in the area, Parajuli made one last attempt, calling his daughter. Thousands of miles away, in Louisiana, Jyotsna Parajuli picked up that call. Her father explained the situation : The roads were blocked and there was no way to get back to Kathmandu or enter into Tibet. The only way to escape was by helicopter. Jyotsna learned from the U.S. Embassy that a family had hired a private rescue team, working with the Nepalese army, to rescue the stranded tourists by helicopter, but the team was unable to land because of bad weather. Other rescue and relief operations in the region have faced similar weather issues. Crews planning to help those desperately in need are having to wait for storms to subside. Parajuli was told later that 23 people were rescued from the area and left on a bus headed for Kathmandu, but she wasn't sure if her father or his tour group were among them. ``All the people in the group are 60 years old or older. My dad said two Americans in the group were sick because of the weather and altitude, and since the people were older, they couldn't walk to help,'' she said. Now she is anxiously waiting for the weather to clear, and hoping to hear her father's voice again. If you are looking for someone, we invite you to share your story on CNN iReport. See scenes from Nepal after the earthquake. CNN's Sarah Brown and Anne Claire Stapleton contributed to this report.
Canberra, Australia ( CNN ) Before ``Bali Nine'' duo, Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, the last Australian executed for drug offenses abroad was Van Tuong Nguyen by Singapore in 2005. Although Canberra then, as it is now, was strongly opposed to the death penalty, Van's death did not harm Australia's relationship with Singapore, nor the Australian people's view of that country. The executions of Chan and Sukumaran early Wednesday morning will be a different story. Their deaths will result in short to medium term frictions between Canberra and Jakarta at the highest levels. However, this will soon ease as the two countries have a number of common interests that neither side can abandon. But the Australian public's view of Indonesia, and anger with its government, will take much longer to subside. Those sympathetic to the dilemma faced by Indonesia's President Joko Widodo will argue that he was politically bound to allow the executions to take place. He ran on a robust anti-drug campaign, arguing that 18,000 Indonesians die from illicit drugs each year, though those figures are widely disputed. As the saga over whether the executions would take place dragged on for months, following ever more desperate legal challenges from the defense teams, Widodo painted himself into a corner. The widespread Australian perception is that the President owed his power to PDI-P Chairperson and former President Megawati Sukarnoputri. Believed by many to be the most powerful person in the country, some suggest that Megawati insisted Widodo stand by his hard-line anti-drugs policy and stare down Australian pressure -- or lose her support and reputation as a firm leader in the process. As recently as last year, it seemed that Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott empathized with the underlying pressures and back-room obligations on leaders. While working assiduously behind the scenes to argue for clemency for the ``Bali Nine'' duo, Abbott nevertheless appeared to accept the inevitability of the executions, even as he publicly reiterated Australia's opposition to capital punishment. Such a softly -- softly approach was also aided by an Australian public that did not seem overly interested in the plight of Chan and Sukumaran. All that changed when credible stories began to emerge about the rehabilitation of the two Australian prisoners : Chan becoming a pastor and respected religious example for his fellow prisoners and Sukumaran a passionate painter with impressive talent. Such was the regard held for the Australian duo that even the governor of the Kerobokan jail where they were kept, Sudjonggo, urged a reconsideration of their impending executions. As the duo attracted greater public sympathy -- including from a joint statement by the last six prime ministers urging Jakarta to reconsider -- the good, great and popular in Australian society also united behind the plea for mercy. Under increasing pressure in the polls, the Abbott government began to publicly pursue what it had been doing in private : urging a stay of execution on legal and moral grounds -- even once reminding Jakarta of the over $ 1 billion worth of aid that Indonesia has received from Australia over the past decade. Australians have a dim view of how Indonesia has responded. While Jakarta and many Indonesian people viewed this as typical posturing and moral grandstanding from a developed Western neighbor, Australians began to once again see Indonesia in an unattractive light -- when it was so recently upheld as the shining example of a rising democracy in Southeast Asia. The hard-line stance of Widodo was seen as the heartless and self-interested actions of a weak and inexperienced president attempting to establish his authority -- at the expense of rehabilitated Australian lives. Credible accusations by the defense attorney for the two Australians that a lighter sentence was denied to them because of their incapacity to pay the bribe demanded of them from the sentencing judges affirmed perceptions of Indonesia's judicial system as corrupt if not incompetent. Particularly galling for the Abbott government and Australians was Widodo's refusal to even accept a phone call from Abbott to discuss the issue, and the wall of silence and non-engagement that confronted Australian ministers attempting to plead the case with Indonesian counterparts. Perhaps the final straw was Indonesia's decision to deploy hundreds of commandos and four naval ships to transport the handcuffed prisoners from Bali to their island for execution -- viewed in Australia as a deliberate backhander by Jakarta to Canberra. The Abbott government had warned of unspecified consequences should the executions take place, and on Wednesday morning announced the unprecedented recall of Australia's Ambassador to Indonesia. There are unlikely to be any ministerial visits between the two countries for many months, if not the rest of the year. While Australia is not likely to withdraw aid to Indonesia, Canberra will also ensure that it offers Jakarta no special favors in the immediate future. Given the degree of ongoing cooperation on important issues, such as terrorism, money laundering and drug trafficking, Australia and Indonesia will continue to work together behind the scenes at the operational levels. Australia will also need ongoing Indonesia cooperation to stem the flow of illegal boat arrivals to Australian shores and will not want to jeopardize what has already been achieved. For these reasons, the fallout between capitals will be contained. But while the Indonesian public appears divided as to whether their government acted wisely, the Australian public is united that Jakarta did not. This means that for them, and even as a democracy, the older images of Indonesia as a corrupt, immature and unpredictable neighbor will return. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.
Western Australia ( CNN ) Many Australians are understandably appalled by the brutal and pointless executions of Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran. The death penalty looks anachronistic and ineffective at the best of times, but to kill two people who had clearly made the most of their long periods of incarceration to transform themselves and make amends for their actions looks gratuitous and cruel. Consequently, Indonesia's actions raise more general questions about the powers we give to states -- or, more accurately, to those who control the coercive apparatus of the state at any particular moment. As German sociologist Max Weber pointed out, one of the key features of an effective state is that it has a monopoly over the legitimate use of violence. State officials can order people to be killed because -- especially in democracies -- we authorize them to do so. We can give no more significant power to another human being than to decide who lives or who dies. And yet even where that authority is deemed legitimate -- as is clearly the case in Indonesia -- its significance is only seriously considered at moments like this, when the very personal circumstances of some of its victims become the stuff of popular commentary and media interest. Less prominent victims of state-sanctioned violence often go entirely unremarked. However disappointed we may be in the actions of Indonesian President Joko Widodo -- in whom so many inside and outside Indonesia have invested such hopes as a progressive force -- he can make a couple of claims in his defense. First, Widodo -- popularly known as Jokowi -- is Indonesia's elected leader and is fulfilling his promise to crack down on what he and many other Indonesians see as a problem. Indonesia's domestic political context and the need to be seen as not giving favorable treatment to foreigners left him very little room to maneuver. This is not a justification for his actions, but it helps to explain why he was so impervious to pleas for mercy. Whatever we may think about the underlying principles and administration of justice in Indonesia, at least Jokowi can claim that it is essentially a domestic issue. We may not like Indonesia's laws, but they are being applied even-handedly within national borders where state officials have authority. Significantly, it is those same national borders that demarcate the extent of Indonesia's leaders ability -- or even desire, perhaps -- to use their capacity for state-sanctioned violence. Other countries -- including Australia -- have no such inhibitions and regularly kill perfectly innocent civilians in the course of one conflict or another. This propensity for the application of state-sanctioned violence seems especially germane when we consider another president about whom great things were expected, but who has inevitably disappointed. After the unilateralism of George W. Bush, Barack Obama was widely predicted to be a very different sort of president and one who would not make the sort of catastrophic strategic miscalculations of his predecessor. Paradoxically enough, though, while Obama has been widely criticized for a lack of decisiveness and unwillingness to commit more American forces to the Middle East, this has done nothing to curb the use of state-sanctioned violence. On the contrary, the use of drone strikes has become a key part of America's continuing war on terror. It is unsurprising, perhaps, that a cerebral and reflective leader as Obama is should be attracted to drones as a weapon of choice. Unlike Jokowi, Obama doesn't have to confront the personal narratives of the people who die at his command. Or he doesn't unless they're American citizens, at least. The recent death of an American hostage during a recent drone strike highlights the potential for ``collateral damage''. Are these cases comparable ? Yes and no. Widodo's executions were cold-blooded, unnecessary and highly political. Obama clearly was not intending to kill Americans, and this has only become an issue because one of the hostages actually was. However, dozens of entirely innocent women and children from other countries are routinely killed in such strikes with little comment. The key point is that we are collectively responsible for such deaths at some level or another, especially if our leaders and state officials carry them out. Do good intentions justify one death and not another ? Perhaps. Would we encourage the state to kill a thousand innocents if it meant eliminating Hitler ? Almost certainly. Would we authorize a drone strike to kill ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdad if we thought a couple of passers-by might die, too ? Perhaps. Would we permit the state to execute people ? Not any longer in Australia, at least. But before we congratulate ourselves on how civilized and humane we've become, perhaps we should pause to consider the violence that is still being inflicted on perfectly innocent people around the world in our collective name. What was done in the name of the Indonesian state was undoubtedly awful, futile and reprehensible. Whether our moral calculus is quite so self-evidently superior is not quite so clear. Copyright 2015 The Conversation. Some rights reserved.
( CNN ) It came a day early. Baltimore investigators handed their files on Freddie Gray's death over to prosecutors Thursday, but the public shouldn't expect much. It's largely a procedural step, and given the overtures from Baltimore officials, the state's attorney's decision on whether to file charges against the six officers involved in the arrest will not be immediate. No reports will be made public, police Commissioner Anthony Batts said, echoing an assertion he made last week that even after the prosecutors receive the files, the task force assigned to Gray's death will continue investigating. ``That is just us sitting down, providing all the data we have. We will continue to follow the evidence wherever it goes,'' Batts said. The Gray family's legal team had no expectations otherwise. ``I hate to say this, but I think if people are waiting for answers or charges to come,'' attorney Mary Koch said this week, ``I don't think that's going to happen based on the way the process works, and I think that the government officials need to advise people of how the process honestly works and to lower their expectations about what's going to happen.''. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake seemed reluctant to do so during a Thursday interview with CNN. Pressed several times on whether answers would be forthcoming, the mayor seemed to dance around the question. Handing over the report represents ``an inflection point,'' she said at first, before explaining that it also marks a ``continuation in a process toward justice.'' She went on to reiterate a point officials have made several times, that releasing information hastily could jeopardize the probe and any possible prosecution. Asked again if it was fair for people to assume they would not get answers immediately, she said Baltimore officials had a ``duty to protect the justice process.'' Prodded on whether the public should expect her or Batts to announce findings, she said she didn't want to ``seek justice for optics'' and explained she had spoken to schools, clergy and community leaders about what to expect. Finally, asked flat out if people should expect an end to the saga when the report was handed over, she replied : ``Well, it can't be the end. There's been no charges. There's been no trial. It can not be the end.''. The family understands the process and was warned at the outset to be patient, Koch said Thursday. ``We've told the family from the beginning that answers were not going to come quickly and that the investigation needed to be full and complete,.. and hopefully what will happen is the correct people are charged, those charged are prosecuted and that prosecution sticks,'' she said. Perhaps lost amid the chaos that has descended on Baltimore is that there is not one, but two investigations, seeking to determine how Gray suffered a fatal spine injury in police custody. The mayhem since Gray's April 19 death a week after his arrest -- the looting, vandalism, blazes, attacks on police and firefighters, marauding criminals stoking the havoc -- has overtaken, or at least outweighed, updates about the investigations. Newly appointed Attorney General Loretta Lynch said Monday that the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division and the FBI ``will continue our careful and deliberate examination of the facts in the coming days and weeks.''. Because of the Baltimore police's history, the Justice Department has been working with the force since October as part of a reform initiative that will assess ``policies, training and operations as they relate to use of force and interactions with citizens.''. Rawlings-Blake requested that the Justice Department take a look at the police department, The Baltimore Sun reported, saying her request came on the heels of the newspaper's report that the city had paid almost $ 6 million in judgments and settlements in 102 police misconduct civil suits since 2011. Overwhelmingly, The Sun reported, the people involved in the incidents that sparked the lawsuits were cleared of criminal charges. Asked during her Thursday interview why no police officers have yet been charged in Gray's case -- given that if the case involved civilians instead of officers there would ostensibly be probable cause for arrests -- Rawlings-Blake, an attorney by trade, said the question amounted to speculation and cited her efforts to reform the Baltimore Police Department and repair the community's mistrust in police. ``Quite likely, but it could be the same situation, and at the end of the day, it's about this case and making sure we're getting this case right. It has nothing to do with speculation about any other cases out there. This family wants justice. They don't want us to sit here and speculate about what could've have happened if it was a private citizen that did it,'' she said. Rawlings-Blake and police officials have repeatedly promised answers and accountability. ``We welcome outside review,'' police spokesman Capt. Eric Kowalczyk has said. ``We want to be open. We want to be transparent. We owe it to the city, and we owe it to the Gray family to find out exactly what happened.''. According to police, officers encountered Gray on April 12 and he ``fled unprovoked.'' Three officers gave chase, apprehended Gray and carried him -- screaming, his legs dangling listlessly -- to a police transport van. Once at the police station, officers requested an ambulance, which took Gray to the University of Maryland's Shock Trauma Center, where he died a week later. An autopsy report indicated Gray died of a spinal injury, but Batts has said that the medical examiner was still awaiting a toxicology report and a spinal expert's analysis before issuing his final report. So far, six officers involved in the arrest have been suspended with pay : Sgt. Alicia White, 30 ; Officer William Porter, 25 ; Officer Garrett Miller, 26 ; Officer Edward Nero, 29 ; Lt. Brian Rice, 41 ; and Officer Caesar Goodson, 45. Five of them have given statements to investigators, Batts said. Releasing the officers' names is standard procedure after an in-custody death and in no way implicates wrongdoing, Kowalczyk said. Though the investigation is not yet complete, Batts said last week there are at least two indications that officers involved in Gray's arrest did not follow protocol. ``We know he was not buckled in the transport wagon, as he should've been. No excuses for that, period,'' he said. ``We know our police employees failed to get him medical attention in a timely manner multiple times.''. That Gray wasn't buckled has raised speculation that he was injured during what's known as a ``rough ride'' or ``nickel ride,'' in which officers place a handcuffed suspect in a police van and drive recklessly so as to toss the suspect around. Asked if Gray could have incurred his injuries via a rough ride or outside of the van, Batts said there is ``potential'' that both could be true. Baltimore police have established a task force of 30 investigators -- including members of the force investigation unit and homicide detectives -- to look into Gray's death, Batts said. They've conducted dozens of interviews, canvassed the region on foot seeking witnesses and procured video from closed-circuit television cameras. Deputy Commissioner Kevin Davis, who is overseeing the task force as the head of the Investigations and Intelligence Bureau, said last week that the evidence suggested the transport van carrying Gray made three stops before delivering him to the police station. But on Thursday, he said a privately owned camera had captured evidence of a fourth stop. Rice and two other officers on bikes were the first to see Gray, Davis said last week. Two officers remained on their bikes and one gave chase on foot, pursuing Gray for about one-fifth of a mile, he said. ``That's where the apprehension of Freddie Gray occurred, and quite frankly, that's exactly where Freddie Gray should have received medical attention, and he did not,'' Davis said last week. The paddy wagon carrying Gray traveled about one block before stopping, and Gray was removed from the van and placed in leg irons, Davis said last week. On Thursday, Davis revealed that the van stopped again, about a mile from where police placed shackles on Gray. He did not elaborate on that stop. From there, according to the narrative Davis provided last week, the van then traveled about half a mile before stopping again ``to deal with Mr. Gray, and the facts of that interaction are under investigation,'' he said. It was at that stop, Batts added, that officers lifted Gray off the floor and placed him on a seat in the transport van. Gray requested a medic during that stop, he said. The van then traveled to another incident, about a mile away and just a few hundred feet from where Gray was first spotted and chased. There, a second prisoner was placed in the van, which headed back to the police department's Western District building, about a mile away, the deputy commissioner said. It was only then that an ambulance was called and Gray was taken to the hospital. ``It's complex,'' Davis said of the probe. ``It involves a minutiae of details. It requires our full talents, our full time, and we're going to get this right.''. CNN's Chris Cuomo contributed to this report.
( CNN ) German police overnight thwarted a terrorist plot by a radicalized couple, a plan they suspect involved bombing a bicycle race near Frankfurt, a German terrorism researcher briefed by investigators told CNN on Thursday. German prosecutors and police said that a man and a woman had been arrested in the Frankfurt-area town of Oberursel on suspicion of planning a Boston-style attack, but the authorities did not explicitly reveal the target. The suspected target, according to Florian Flade, the terrorism researcher, was a race planned for Friday. The race loops around Eshborn and Frankfurt on May Day each year, attracting large crowds of spectators along the cycle route. Prosecutor Albrecht Schreiber said police recovered a pipe bomb ready to be used, 100 rounds of 9mm ammunition, a gun, the essential parts of a G-3 assault rifle and 3 liters of hydrogen peroxide, which becomes explosive at high concentrations and has been used in multiple terror plots in the West, including the 2005 London bombings. Earlier Thursday, Andreas Hemmes, a spokesman for the police of West Hesse, told CNN that the house and car of two individuals in Oberursel, in the forested hills west of Frankfurt, had been searched. As a result of what had been found, police had expanded their search along the L3004 road on the bike race route, Hemmes said. ``We suspect that there was a Salafist background,'' said Peter Beuth, the interior minister for Hesse, referring to ultra-fundamentalist interpretations of Islam. ``Police investigations at this stage indicate that we have thwarted an Islamist attack.''. Flade, a journalist at Die Welt and terrorism researcher who first broke the story of the police raids, told CNN that a German couple of Turkish descent -- Halil and Senay D. -- were under arrest. He said the couple had ties to radical Islamist circles in the Frankfurt area. Neither is suspected of having direct links to the leadership of a terrorist group. Last week German police observed Halil D. moving in and out of a small forest near where he was living. They suspect he was looking for a good place to hide a bomb along the bike race route, according to Flade. Flade said that according to German police documents, German police first became aware of the couple at the end of March when they went to a garden center near Frankfurt to purchase hydrogen peroxide. He said the store employee contacted police after becoming suspicious for several reasons. The first was that the woman was covered in a full veil. The second was that the couple claimed they wanted to buy hydrogen peroxide to clean their fish pond in their garden, but the amount they were ordering would have been enough to clean dozens of such ponds. Furthermore, after police thwarted a bomb plot by German extremists trained in the tribal areas of Pakistan to kill American servicemen in Germany in September 2007 with hydrogen peroxide-based bombs -- the so-called ``Sauerland'' plot -- German law had required such stores to report to police significant purchases of hydrogen peroxide. According to Flade, after the tipoff, German investigators began trying to figure out who the couple were. All they had to go on was the surveillance footage. The woman was fully veiled and her male companion was blurry in the tape, so they did not immediately know who they were. But in early to mid-April they were able to identify them and start surveillance to investigate the couple's radical ties. According to Flade, German police established that the couple had recently traveled to Spain, where they met with members of Sharia4Spain, a radical pro-jihadist group linked to Al Muhajiroun in the United Kingdom. Spanish police had monitored the meeting in Spain. They also established that the couple had links to radicals who had gone to fight with AQIM, al Qaeda's North African affiliate. And they found the couple were in contact with a young radical Islamist from Frankfurt who had gone to fight in Syria at the end of last year and was recently killed. The pipe bomb that was recovered by police appears to have similarities to devices built by Boston Marathon bombers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Flade said the device recovered near Frankfurt included nails as shrapnel. The Boston bombers downloaded instructions from a recipe in Inspire magazine, an online Engish language magazine put out by al Qaeda in Yemen, which has also been translated into German and other languages. In August 2013, the British security agency MI5 revealed to Parliament's intelligence and security committee that Inspire has been ``read by those involved in at least seven out of the 10 attacks planned within the UK since its first issue ( in 2010 ). We judge that it significantly enhanced the capability of individuals in four of these 10 attack plots.''. Like other European countries, Germany is grappling with an unprecedented terrorist threat because of the high number of its citizens who have traveled to Syria and Iraq. In recent years there has been growing concern over radicalization in Germany's large Turkish diaspora community. Travel to Syria is particularly easy for individuals of Turkish descent because Turkey is the entry point for most foreign fighters traveling to Syria. According to Flade, almost 700 Germans are believed to have traveled to Syria and Iraq, with up to 90 % joining ISIS. One-third of these have returned to Germany and 70 to 80 have been killed in the fighting in Syria and Iraq. There has only been one fatal terrorist attack in Germany since 9/11 -- the shooting death of two U.S. airmen outside Frankfurt Airport by a lone-wolf radicalized Islamist in March 2011. CNN's Fred Pleitgen contributed to this report.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) On Day Six of Nepal's tragedy, life triumphed as rescuers pulled an 15-year-old from the rubble of a multistory residential building in one of Kathmandu's hard-hit neighborhoods. A large crowd erupted in cheers as Pemba Tamang was carried out on a stretcher. He was wearing a New York shirt and a blue neck brace, was blanketed by dust and had the look of a deer in the headlights. His rescuer, Inspector Lakshman Basnet of the Nepalese Armed Police Force, said Tamang was responsive and showed no apparent signs of serious injury. He was given an IV drip and rushed from the Gongapur area to a temporary emergency hospital run by an Israeli aid team. The Nepalese rescuers had been working for five hours to locate Tamang after they heard his voice coming from under the debris. Also Thursday, a U.S. special operations forces team rescued 30 people, including three Americans, by helicopter from an area of Nepal called Bamboo Village, according to the U.S. ambassador to Nepal. The group was trapped in the village and living in a makeshift shelter, Ambassador Peter Bodde said. The families had contacted the U.S. government to let officials know where their relatives were stuck, he said. They had no other way to get out of the area, Bodde said. An American disaster response team was also involved in the rescue of the 15 year old boy. The team was at a nearby damaged bus station when it got word that someone might be alive. Andrew Olvera, the head of the U.S. team, said his men rushed over with search dogs and equipment ranging from breaching tools to sophisticated cameras that can probe under the rubble. He said the operation carried enormous risk, as chunks of the collapsed building hung precariously on rebar. Entire floors of what used to be people's homes were visible -- ceiling fans and beds still draped with cotton sheets. It was a mountain of loss and sorrow. ``It's dangerous, but it's what we do,'' said Olvera, who has a daughter and twin 11-year-old boys. ``It's risk versus gain. To save a human life, we will risk almost everything. ``The way the building is, it's definitely a miracle,'' he said. Tamang cried for water in a muffled voice. He had been buried for five days under a building that pancaked. He dodged death because of a motorcycle that shielded him from the pressure of the concrete and steel, according to Basnet. And, Basnet said, he ``survived by good faith.''. Dennis Bautista, who went down to where Tamang was buried to administer medical aid, called the rescue amazing. ``It feels good to be able to help out. I can't imagine what he went through,'' Bautista said. ``He is a brave young man.''. Basnet said once he got closer to Tamang, he tried to reassure him that he would be OK. ``I gave him water and talked to him regularly,'' Basnet said. After Tamang was rushed to the hospital, the US Agency for International Development team continued the search. The possibility remained that someone else might have survived, like Tamang. Other search and rescue teams continued to scour through Kathmandu's rubble Thursday. They are looking for survivors from the magnitude-7.8 earthquake that struck Saturday, killing at least 6,134 people and wounding almost 14,000, according to Nepali authorities. Another 72 people were reported dead in India and 25 in China. In Nepal, 19 of the deaths occurred on Mount Everest, where the quake triggered deadly avalanches. Despite the disaster, Nepali authorities plans to reopen routes up the mountain as soon as next week. Teams are clearing paths and and rebuilding ladders, Tourism Ministry spokesman Krishna Sapkota told CNN on Thursday. Officials are encouraging people who have already received permission to climb this season to go ahead with their plans. As the chances dimmed for finding people alive in the wreckage left by the quake across Nepal, Tamang's rescue boosted hopes for all those who still have loved ones and friends missing. Other people have been saved from under collapsed buildings in previous days, including a 27-year-old man on Tuesday and a 4-month-old boy on Sunday. The Nepali military also released a photo of a dust-caked 11-year-old girl who they said was rescued Wednesday after 90 hours under the rubble. The rescuers, meanwhile, have no intention of giving up looking for more. The 2010 earthquake in Haiti, Olvera said, revised the benchmark for what was thought possible for survival. A man there was miraculously pulled from the rubble after 27 long days. 360-degree view of earthquake zone. CNN's Sugam Pokharel contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Shortly after being elected chief prosecutor, Baltimore City State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby said prosecutors in the hardscrabble town had the ``toughest job in America.''. Mosby, who took over her first elected post in January, now faces what is likely to be the toughest case of her nascent career -- deciding whether criminal charges should be filed against Baltimore police officers in the controversial death of Freddie Gray. Gray, 25, died in police custody from a fatal spinal cord injury, one week after he was arrested. Six officers involved in his arrest have been suspended with pay pending an investigation. Mosby, 35, who comes from a long line of police officers, including her grandfather, four uncles and her mother, assumes a key role in the latest case to draw national attention to the issue of relations between police officers and the communities they are sworn to serve. ``My grandfather was one of the first African-American police officers in Massachusetts and one of the things he instilled on us is the importance of public service,'' Mosby said in a campaign video. Freddie Gray's mysterious death has turned the largely black city near the nation's capital into a tinderbox where mostly peaceful demonstrations on Monday erupted in pockets of looting and rioting in the hours after Gray's funeral. A 10 p.m. citywide curfew was put into effect two days ago, and National Guard troops have joined Baltimore police in an attempt to maintain order. On Thursday, as police handed their investigative files over to the state attorney's officer a day earlier than planned, supporters of the former insurance company lawyer expressed confidence in Mosby's ability to handle the volatile case. ``We're enthusiastic about the new prosecutor,'' said William ``Billy'' Murphy Jr., a former Baltimore judge who is now the lead attorney for Gray's family. ``She comes to the office with a belief in the integrity of these kinds of investigations. We have much more confidence in her than we have in the police because there's never been any level of confidence, nor should there be, in the police investigating themselves.''. Mosby confirmed in a statement Thursday that she had received the police's investigative report. She said that while police have regularly briefed her office on their findings, her team has been conducting its own independent probe into the April 19 death. 45 CVS workers still getting paid after riots shut down stores. ``While we have and will continue to leverage the information received by the department, we are not relying solely on their findings, but rather the facts that we have gathered and verified,'' Mosby said. ``We ask for the public to remain patient and peaceful and to trust the process of the justice system.''. Mosby is married to Baltimore City Councilman Nick Mosby, who represents areas of West Baltimore where riots erupted earlier this week. The couple have two young daughters. ``She's my wife,'' Nick Mosby told CNN on Thursday. ``She's a strong woman. She was built for this.. I was at church service the other day and they were talking about being at the right place with the right person at the right time. I know her heart has always been convicted to ensure that justice will be served fairly and equally across the board.''. During her campaign, Mosby spoke about the broad daylight shooting death of her 17-year-old cousin on her front doorstep. ``I learned very early on that the criminal justice system isn't just the police, the judges and the state's attorney,'' she said. ``It's much more than that. I believe that we are the justice system. We, the members of the community, are the justice system because we are the victims of crimes.''. Mosby said her cousin's 1994 murder was her first introduction to the criminal justice system. ``Having to go to court and deal with prosecutors,'' she said. ``Having to go to court and see my neighbor who had the courage and audacity to cooperate with the police.. to testify in court and the way the district attorney's office treated my family is something that inspired me.''. Mosby, who grew up in Boston, is the youngest chief prosecutor of any major city in the United States, according to the state's attorney's website. At the age of 6, Mosby was accepted in a school desegregation program in Massachusetts. She later participated in a study of the civil rights movement. ``After having that awesome experience I knew I wanted to be an attorney,'' she said during her campaign. A. Dwight Pettit, a civil rights attorney and Mosby supporter, said he believes she will ``deliver on doing it right, and getting it right. I'm confident in that.''. ``She's very dedicated and part of what she campaigned on was bringing integrity to the office, and so I believe that she will move in a methodical way,'' he said. ``And I think that she will follow where the evidence leads. I do not think she will follow just public opinion.''. When she was sworn in as chief prosecutor earlier this year, Mosby brought up the lack of trust between the community and police. ``Our time to repair that trust, to come together collectively as a community to start to break down the barriers to progress in our communities is now,'' she said. Mosby added, ``As a black woman who understands just how much the criminal justice system disproportionately affects communities of color, I will seek justice on your behalf.''. Mosby is African-American, as are Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Police Commissioner Anthony Batts and other leading Baltimore officials. Although about 63 % of Baltimore's population is black, they face stunning disparities when it comes to income, employment, poverty, housing, incarceration and overall health. The people on Mosby's transition team included former Mayor Kurt Schmoke, former congressman and NAACP president Kweisi Mfume and Murphy, who is now representing Gray's family. Schmoke, a former state's attorney and Baltimore's first African-American mayor, said Mosby's background will buy her time with a tense community anxious for justice. ``I actually think that the level of patience will actually increase primarily because the state's attorney, Marilyn Mosby, was recently elected,'' he said. ``She has a level of credibility with the community that will allow for that patience. I can't say how long, but I do think that people will give her a little bit more time to do it right rather than to do it fast.''. Mosby defeated Gregg Bernstein as state's attorney in a 2014 election. ``Baltimore prosecutors get to see it all in court -- we've got the toughest job in America,'' she said in a statement after the election. Mary Koch, another attorney for Gray's family, said the new chief prosecutor has her work cut out for her. ``The family wants the truth and they want it to be arrived at very carefully and that's not going to be an easy job for Ms. Mosby,'' said Koch, adding : ``That's her job. That's the job she took on.''
( CNN ) Kim Bok-dong is 89 now, and is going blind and deaf. She knows her health is fading, and she can no longer walk unassisted. But her eyes burn bright with a passion borne of redressing her suffering of a lifetime ago. She enters a meeting of Tokyo foreign correspondents in a wheelchair, visibly exhausted after a flight from Seoul and days of interviews and meetings. The nightmares from five years as a sex slave of the Japanese army, from 1940 onwards, are still crystal clear. Kim is determined to share her story with anyone who will listen, until she's no longer physically able. ``My only wish is to set the record straight about the past. Before I die,'' Kim says. Kim was a 14-year-old girl when the Japanese came to her village in Korea. She says they told her she had no choice but to leave her home and family to support the war effort by working at a sewing factory. ``There was no option not to go,'' she recalls. ``If we didn't go, we'd be considered traitors,''. Instead of going to a sewing factory, Kim says she ended up in Japanese military brothels in half a dozen countries. Along with about 30 other women, she says she was locked in a room and forced to do things no teenage girl -- no woman -- should ever have to do. Kim describes seemingly endless days of soldiers lined up outside the brothel, called a ``comfort station.''. Often they were so close to the front lines, they could hear the battles of World War Two happening all around them. ``Our job was to revitalize the soldiers,'' she says. ``On Saturdays, they would start lining up at noon. And it would last until 8pm. There was always a long line of soldiers. On Sunday it was 8 a.m to 5 p.m. Again, a long line. I didn't have the chance to count how many.''. Kim estimates each Japanese soldier took around three minutes. They usually kept their boots and leg wraps on, hurriedly finishing so the next solider could have his turn. Kim says it was dehumanizing, exhausting, and often excruciating. ``When it was over, I couldn't even get up. It went on for such a long time. By the time the sun went down, I couldn't use my lower body at all. After the first year, we were just like machines,'' she says. Kim believes the years of physical abuse took a permanent toll on her body. Tears stream down her cheeks as she explains how she was never able to fulfill her dream of having children. ``When I started, the Japanese military would often beat me because I wasn't submissive,'' Kim says. ``There are no words to describe my suffering. Even now. I can't live without medicine. I'm always in pain.''. Kim is part of an NGO called the ``Korean Council for the Women Drafted for Military Sexual Slavery by Japan,'' which is fighting for an apology. Some Japanese prime ministers have personally apologized in the past, but the NGO director believes that it's not nearly enough. Tokyo maintains its legal liability for the wrongdoing was cleared by a bilateral claims treaty signed in 1965 between South Korea and Japan. Kim's story matches testimony from other so-called ``comfort women.''. In Washington, as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe conducts a state visit to the United States, former Korean sex slave Lee Yong-soo makes a tearful plea to him, demanding an official apology for Japan's sexual enslavement of an estimated 200,000 comfort women, mostly Korean and Chinese. Many have since passed away, but those still alive want individual compensation for their treatment. Critics say Abe has not been vocal enough. They fear his government is trying to whitewash the past, to appease conservatives who feel comfort women were paid prostitutes, not victims of official military policy. ``When it comes to the comfort women sex slave system, it is pretty much unique to Japan. I think Nazi Germany had some of it to a smaller degree. But in the Japanese case it was large scale, and state-sponsored, essentially,'' says Koichi Nakano, a professor of political science at Tokyo's Sophia University. Nakano points out that, since Abe first came to office his government has succeeded in removing references to ``comfort women'' from many Japanese school textbooks. It's part of what critics call Japan's track record of glossing over its war crimes. '' ( Comfort women ) have gone through tremendous trauma. And in a way, the Japanese government risks a second rape by discrediting their testimonies and treating ( their experiences ) as if they were lies,'' Nakano says. Abe insists he and other Prime Ministers have made repeated apologies. ``I am deeply pained to think of the comfort women who experienced immeasurable pain and suffering,'' Abe told diet lawmakers last year. Abe gave a similarly worded statement during a press conference Tuesday in Washington, DC -- leading critics to question the sincerity of Abe's expressions of remorse over the issue. Abe has said he does not believe women were coerced to work in the military brothels. Nakano says Abe and conservative lawmakers feel ``singled out.''. ``They feel there's some sort of a plot by other Asian countries to sully the Japanese name to their advantage.''. With Abe's historic visit to the U.S. just months before the 70th anniversary of the end of World War Two, Kim wants President Obama to pressure his key Asian ally to do more to acknowledge history. Meanwhile, Kim has had enough of the excuses she says are hampering her efforts to finally get peace. ``To say there's no evidence is absurd. I am the evidence,'' she says.
( CNN ) About a dozen Native American actors have walked off the set of an Adam Sandler movie comedy, saying the satirical Western's script is insulting to Native Americans and women, according to a report. The walkout occurred Wednesday on the set of ``The Ridiculous Six'' near Las Vegas, New Mexico, according to the Indian Country Today Media Network. The script called for native women's names such as ``Beaver's Breath'' and ``No Bra'' and an actress portraying an Apache woman to squat and urinate while smoking a peace pipe, ICTMN reported. ``When I began doing this film, I had an uneasy feeling inside of me and I felt so conflicted.. We talked to the producers about our concerns. They just told us, `If you guys are so sensitive, you should leave,''' said Allison Young, a Navajo and one of the actors who left the set. ``Nothing has changed,'' she told ICTMN. ``We are still just Hollywood Indians.''. ``They were being disrespectful,'' added David Hill, a Choctaw actor. ``They were bringing up those same old arguments that Dan Snyder uses in defending the ( Washington ) Redskins. But let me tell you, our dignity is not for sale.''. Produced by Sandler's Happy Madison Productions as part of a four-picture deal with Netflix, ``The Ridiculous Six'' also stars Will Forte, Taylor Lautner, Steve Buscemi, John Turturro, Nick Nolte, Luke Wilson and Rob Schneider, among others. The ICTMN describes the movie as a Western spoof on ``The Magnificent Seven,'' the 1960 classic about gunfighters who protect a village from a group of bandits. The movie was co-written by Sandler and is being directed by his frequent collaborator Frank Coraci. Actors playing historical figures include David Spade as General Custer, Blake Shelton as Wyatt Earp and Vanilla Ice as Mark Twain, according to the Internet Movie Database. Sandler had not commented publicly on the walkout as of Friday morning, although people were criticizing him in comments posted on his Facebook page. ``Hey Adam, act like an adult for once. Respect others, especially Native Americans,'' wrote one commenter. In a statement sent to CNN and other media outlets, Netflix defended the movie as satire :. ``The movie has ridiculous in the title for a reason : because it is ridiculous. It is a broad satire of Western movies and the stereotypes they popularized, featuring a diverse cast that is not only part of -- but in on -- the joke.''. The Native American actors who spoke to ICTMN weren't laughing, however. One, Loren Anthony, posted a photo to Instagram from the set Monday along with a comment saying, ``Having a good time, great cast, great crew and feeling blessed to be here.''. But by Wednesday, the Navajo actor had become disillusioned and joined others in walking out. He told ICTMN he felt insulted because costumes he and others wore to portray Apache Indians were not authentic. ``We were supposed to be Apache, but it was really stereotypical and we did not look Apache at all. We looked more like Comanche,'' he said. According to ICTMN, a Native American adviser hired to help ensure the movie's cultural authenticity also walked off the set in protest. Hill, the Choctaw actor, seemed to hold out hope that differences between the producers and Native American cast members could be resolved. ``I hope they will listen to us,'' he told ICTMN. ``We understand this is a comedy, we understand this is humor, but we won't tolerate disrespect.''. In photos : A glimpse of life on the reservation.
( CNN ) Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is scheduled to speak Wednesday to a joint meeting of Congress. The address marks the first time in history that the head of the Japanese government will address the entire U.S. Congress, and given the importance of the U.S.-Japan relationship, it is an invitation long overdue. So far, Prime Minister Abe's appearance has garnered much less attention than last month's speech to Congress by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. This is not surprising ; in a recent survey by the Pew Research Center nearly three-quarters of the respondents indicated they had ``never heard of'' Shinzo Abe, underscoring just how difficult it is for the Obama administration to sell its much-vaunted ``pivot'' or ``rebalance'' to the American public. Nevertheless, Abe arrives in Washington at an opportune time to help along the economic centerpiece of the ``pivot,'' the Trans-Pacific Partnership Free Trade Agreement, or TPP. The TPP is a potentially massive free trade agreement involving the United States, Japan and 10 other Pacific-facing nations -- combined, these countries account for 40 % of global GDP. And beyond its potential economic impact, it also allows the United States to expand its influence in Asia, providing an alternative to China-centered agreements such as the Regional Cooperative Economic Partnership. The stakes, therefore, are significant. But so is some of the opposition to an agreement that has been negotiated in secret. Prominent Democrats such as Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, for example, have been critical of the TPP, arguing that provisions such as one on international arbitration of disputes between investors and states undermine U.S. sovereignty. But the immediate battle in Congress is not over the TPP directly, but something called trade promotion authority, or ``Fast-Track.'' Trade promotion authority, which would allow trade agreements such as the TPP to come before Congress without amendment, has been on the books for decades. The power to use trade promotion authority, however, must be periodically reauthorized. Congress voted narrowly to give President Bush trade promotion authority in 2002, but that authority expired in 2007 and has not been renewed. There is near universal agreement that the current talks can not be concluded unless the Congress reauthorizes trade promotion authority, without which the 11 other nations that are parties to the talks can not be confident that the United States speaks with one voice. Republicans control both houses of Congress, and are generally supportive of free trade. But while passage of trade promotion authority in the Senate is likely, the result in the House, where Abe will be speaking, is less certain. This is in part because some House Republicans are simply loath to delegate any power to the President, while others are certainly aware of the ramifications of the trade promotion authority vote for 2016. After all, the fact that Republicans would actually be supporting the proposal of a Democratic President will not prevent Democrats -- and their labor supporters -- from using the vote as a weapon to diminish support for Republicans among those white, working-class voters who were so crucial to Republican success in the 2014 midterm. But even if trade promotion authority passes, the fight over the TPP is far from over. Provisions in the trade promotion authority bills just voted out of the committees will require review for at least four months after the negotiations are concluded and before Congress can grant final approval to the TPP. This likely throws the TPP vote directly into the path of the 2016 presidential race. Ironically, the fact that Democrats seem likely to nominate Hillary Clinton, an early supporter of the TPP, may go a long way to blunting this attack. Still, it is hard to see House Republicans willing to ``go it alone'' on the TPP without some Democratic buy-in. Which brings us back to Prime Minister Abe's speech. Given that we are fast approaching the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, there will be an understandable focus on what the Prime Minister says regarding his nation's role in that conflict. In the eyes of many in China and South Korea, Japan has never sufficiently apologized for its past transgressions, while the United States itself expressed disappointment over a visit Abe made to the controversial Yasukuni Shrine. Yet despite such criticisms, a Pew poll found a plurality in the United States thinks that the apologies that Japan has issued in the past about the war are sufficient. As a result, for much of the U.S. audience, Abe's words about the TPP will be of equal importance to questions of history. So, what will the Prime Minister say, and will his support for TPP be enough to sway Congress ?. Certainly, Abe has a lot riding on the agreement domestically ; he has faced opposition from agricultural interests at home who are usually firm backers of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party, and could be hurt politically if the negotiations collapse. This suggests that the big challenge for Abe on Wednesday will be to reframe the debate over trade promotion authority and the TPP in a way that convinces the American people that the trade agreement is not about enriching U.S. corporations and outsourcing U.S. jobs, but strengthening the U.S.-Japan alliance and establishing trade rules that will eventually help the United States and other countries combat the unfair trade practices of China. It's a tall task, especially when it is unlikely the public will be paying much attention to his speech. But it's a deal that will have significant repercussions not just for the deal at hand, but for the success of President Obama's pivot to Asia. And with that in mind, Prime Minister Abe won't be the only one hoping he can turn in a convincing performance on Wednesday.
Kabul, Afghanistan ( CNN ) The flag is crude, handmade, but the message is clear -- allegiance to ISIS in Afghanistan. And the timing -- with America withdrawing, the Taliban fractured, young men disillusioned and angry -- could not be worse. A group of fighters in Afghanistan agreed to be filmed by a CNN cameraman parading their ISIS flags in a valley not far to the south of Kabul, the Afghan capital. They are the first images of their kind shot by western media inside Afghanistan. The rise of ISIS is an issue that the Afghan President, Ashraf Ghani, has termed a ``terrible threat.''. U.S. officials CNN has spoken to have voiced their concern about the potential for an ISIS presence. One U.S. military officer said the militants currently have limited capability but are trying to recruit disillusioned Taliban in several areas around the country's east and south. ``There has been some very small numbers of recruitment that has happened,'' Colonel J B Vowell, told CNN. ``You have disaffected Taliban who are losing politically and some of the younger, newer fighters are moving to that camp. It doesn't mean it's operationally better. We are concerned about it -- resources, weapons, capabilities. ( But ) I don't see an operational effect.''. In the valley, the men display their weapons, and practice high kicks. They are a little breathless at altitude, a little clumsy. They are all masked, all in military-style uniforms. Our cameraman described how locals seemed to keep their distance from them. It is often said that rivalry between the nascent ISIS presence and the Taliban, who remain the big guns in Afghanistan, is fierce enough to mean the ISIS fighters could be killed for brandishing the flag. But it is fatigue with the Taliban that appears to have provided fertile ground for their rise. One of them told CNN : ``We established contacts with IS ( another acronym for the group ) through a friend who is in Helmand ( in southern Afghanistan ). ``He called us, saying : `the IS people have come to Afghanistan -- let's join them.' Then we joined them and pledged allegiance to them.''. Our cameraman wasn't allowed to film the satellite phones they say they use to talk to Iraq and Syria. They said they were religious students and deny any former association with the Taliban. They said that at night they go into nearby villages to try and find yet more recruits. They watch a mixture of online propaganda, old and new, on their smartphones. The fighter went on to explain that they were currently talking to the Taliban to determine whether they would work with or rival them. He added they are currently designating a new leader, after the supposed head of ISIS in Afghanistan, Abdul Rauf Khadim, was reportedly killed in a drone strike earlier in the year. For months, the Afghan government played down the threat of a looming ISIS presence in Afghanistan, yet during his recent trip to Washington, Ghani struck a different tone. ``We are the front line. The terrorists neither recognize boundaries nor require passports to spread their message of hate and discord. From the west, Daesh is already sending advance guards to southern and western Afghanistan to push our vulnerabilities,'' he told U.S. Congress in late March, using the pejorative name used to describe the militants by many ISIS opponents in the region. There is some evidence to suggest that ISIS may already be operating in the country. A series of brutal attacks on civilian buses have baffled investigators in the past month. The first was in February, when 30 people from the Hazara ethnic group -- Shia Muslims -- were abducted from a bus near Zabul province in the south of the country. They have yet to return. Another hit three buses traveling in Wardak, central Afghanistan, killing 13 civilians including women and children. Suspicions have fallen on possible nascent ISIS cells as the Taliban have vehemently denied responsibility for the attacks. Khalil Andrabi, the police chief of Wardak told CNN of the bus attack : ``I can't hundred percent say that they were IS, but their act was completely similar to what IS is doing in Syria ( and ) Iraq.''. Solid info on ISIS' whereabouts in the country is hard to come by. CNN spoke to local officials from five regions -- some emphasized the growing threat of the terror group, while others played it down. Zabul : MP Abdul Qader Qalatwal says : ``People have seen foreigners from central Asian countries and Arab countries wearing black clothes and masks and having black flags in the districts of Khak Afghan and in parts of Arghandab.''. ``Those foreigners are rich, even carrying U.S. dollars. They have weapons and vehicles. Some of them have even brought their families.''. Nangarhar : MP Esmatullah Shinwari says : ``According to some reports, black flags have been seen in Nangarhar's Haska Mina district -- and a former Taliban local commander, Abdul Khaleq, is now claiming to be ISIS' representative in that district.''. Farah : Senator Haji Gul Ahmad Azimi says : ``According to the reports I have received from local officials in Farah, a number of foreign fighters -- including women -- have been seen in the district of Khak Safid, wearing mostly black clothes, and some -LSB- with -RSB- the Arabic headscarf. They have good vehicles and they are rich -LSB- enough -RSB- to buy food or goods at local shops for twice the normal value.''. ``They are said to live in the mountainous areas of the Khak Safid district in abandoned mud houses, and a month ago were rumored to be training in the area. I can not 100 % confirm they are ISIS, however.''. Wardak : MP Shir Wali Wardak says : ``I don't think ISIS fighters from Syria and Iraq have come here to Afghanistan -- but hardcore Taliban members who have understood that the Taliban name is dying have changed the color of their flags from white to black in order to stay alive. I know that some black flags have been seen in Wardak province, raised by ex-Taliban fighters.''. Ghazni : Deputy Governor Mohammad Ali Ahmadi says : ``There are ex-Taliban fighters operating under the name of ISIS in Ghazni province at the moment who have changed their flag from white to black. There have been armed clashes between newly-converted ISIS ( members ) and Taliban fighters.. who should be in control of certain places.''. CNN's Masoud Popalzai contributed to this report.
( CNN ) When Les Moonves sits down at a restaurant in Hollywood, it's usually the waiter's lucky night. As the president and CEO of CBS Corp., which includes Showtime, Moonves runs a powerful television network in a town where nearly every waiter also wants to be an actor. But when he walked into Craig's in West Hollywood last year, those roles were reversed. This time, Moonves' waiter, Gabriel Salvador, was the one serving up a mouthwatering opportunity that had nothing to do with the shrimp diavolo. Instead, he was offering Moonves an ``in'' to the most coveted match-up in boxing : Floyd Mayweather vs. Manny Pacquiao. ``Moonves' love of boxing, our love of boxing -- that gave me the confidence to say to him `Give me a chance,''' said Salvador, an actor who has appeared in ``Bones'' and ``Blue Bloods.''. ``I said' I can help you make this fight happen,' and he looked at me like, `Okay, I'm listening.'''. That's when Salvador told Moonves his son trained at the Hollywood gym owned by Freddie Roach, Pacquiao's trainer, and that he would put in a good word for Moonves. At that point, Salvador told CNN, he was driven more by his passion to see the fight happen than any real connection to Roach. But he got Roach's phone number from his son, Elijah, who was skeptical of his father's plan. Everybody had already tried, his son said. But Salvador made the call and gained an audience in Roach. ``I said, `Listen, I can help you make this fight happen,''' Salvador said in an interview with CNN. Salvador helped set up a meeting between Moonves, Roach and himself at Scarpetta in Beverly Hills that he says began with a discussion about the legacy of boxing. ``Mr. Moonves said to me, `If this fight happens, you're going to be sitting there,''' said Salvador. Salvador's role ended after that dinner. What followed was a series of meetings between Moonves and both sides that eventually ended the stalemate keeping Pacquiao and Mayweather from entering the same ring. The May 2 fight -- on the pay-per-view services of Showtime and HBO -- is expected to gross as much as $ 600 million. With that kind of money, and a smattering of media buzz around Salvador's story, inevitable questions circulated over what, if any, reward he should get, given the epic nature of the fight. When asked to comment, Pacquiao's team downplayed Salvador's role. ``For him giving Les my phone number I don't think he deserves a finder's fee,'' Roach told CNN. Promoter Bob Arum said Salvador ``got his 10 minutes of fame,'' though he called Salvador ``a really nice guy.''. Salvador insists he is not seeking money, and a CBS spokesman confirmed his role in the initial meeting. ``My reward will be sitting at the fight,'' Salvador said. Moonves made good on that promise -- Salvador will be ringside on Saturday night. ``It's about taking a chance,'' Salvador said. ``It's about putting people in touch with each other and being able to sit back and say, `Wow, I planted that seed.'''
Atlanta ( CNN ) A judge, declaring he wasn't ``comfortable'' with seven-year prison terms given earlier to three educators in the Atlanta Public Schools cheating scandal, on Thursday reduced their sentences to three years in prison. ``I'm not comfortable with it,'' Fulton County Superior Court Judge Jerry Baxter said of the sentences he handed down to the three defendants April 14. ``When a judge goes home and he keeps thinking over and over that something's wrong, something is usually wrong.''. Tamara Cotman, Sharon Davis-Williams and Michael Pitts also were ordered Thursday to serve seven years on probation, pay $ 10,000 fines and work 2,000 hours in community service. Baxter had come under fire from some community leaders for giving prison sentences to eight teachers and administrators who stood trial and were convicted of racketeering. They'd been accused of taking part in an effort to raise tests scores at struggling schools by erasing wrong answers and putting in correct answers. Outside of court, Benjamin Davis, the lawyer for Cotman, questioned the judge's rationale in handing down heavy sentences a few weeks ago. ``I had never seen a judge conduct himself in that way,'' he said. ``What was going on with Judge Baxter ?''. Davis-Williams said she was pleased judge Baxter changed his mind. Her attorney, Teresa Mann, added, ``We are happy. We are elated that judge Baxter took the opportunity to reflect.''. Cotman, Davis-Williams and Pitts, all school reform team executive directors, got the harshest sentences during an April 14 hearing : Seven years in prison, 13 years of probation and $ 25,000 fines. Baxter said of his change of mind : ``I'm going to put myself out to pasture in the not-too-distant future and I want to be out in the pasture without any regrets.''. During the earlier sentencing hearing, Baxter was frustrated when defendants didn't admit their guilt. ``Everybody knew cheating was going on and your client promoted it,'' Baxter said to an attorney representing Davis-Williams. At one point he said, ``These stories are incredible. These kids can't read.''. At a press conference held April 17, most of the convicted educators insisted they were innocent. ``I didn't cheat. I'm not a racketeer,'' said Diane Buckner-Webb, a former elementary teacher. All defendants sentenced to prison have appealed and are out on bond. The lower prison sentences given to other defendants -- ranging from one to two years -- have not been reduced. Prosecutors said the cheating is believed to date back to 2001, when scores on statewide aptitude tests improved greatly, according to a 2013 indictment. The indictment also states that for at least four years, between 2005 and 2009, test answers were altered, fabricated or falsely certified. Michael Bowers, a former Georgia attorney general who investigated the cheating scandal, said in 2013 that there were ``cheating parties,'' erasures in and out of classrooms, and teachers were told to make changes to student answers on tests. Bowers said he heard that educators cheated out of pride, to earn bonuses, to enhance their careers or to keep their jobs. Of 35 Atlanta educators indicted in 2013, more than 20 took a plea deal. Twelve educators went on trial six months ago, with 11 convicted and one acquitted on April 1. Of the 11 convicted, two took a deal in which they admitted guilt, waived their right to appeal and received much lighter sentences. One defendant was giving birth during the sentencing phase not been sentenced. On Thursday, Baxter urged the defendants to engage in community service while they're appealing. He said that might lighten the punishment if the convictions are upheld. The judge said he was tired of dealing with the Atlanta Public Schools cheating scandal, which he referred to as ``this mess.''. ``I'm ready to move on. So, anyway, adios,'' Baxter said, and ended the hearing.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Add another fan-favorite character to the cast of next year's ``X-Men : Apocalypse,'' with director Bryan Singer announcing via Instagram that Olivia Munn will play the telepathic Psylocke in the follow-up to ``X-Men : Days of Future Past.''. Singer revealed that the ``Newsroom'' actress would play Betsy Braddock in the movie ( presumably before the confusing and complicated plot twist that saw Psylocke change from a Caucasian former supermodel to a Japanese ninja for no immediately obvious reason ). ``Apocalypse'' is currently in production for a summer 2016 release. More : ``X-Men : Apocalypse'' casts fan favorite Jubilee. The comic book's Psylocke was created by Chris Claremont and Herb Trimpe for the British ``Captain Britain'' series, where she appeared throughout the 1970s and'80s, before joining the X-Men in 1987's ``Uncanny X-Men'' No. 213. Since that time, she has been a mainstay both of the main team and spin-off series including ``Exiles'' and ``X-Force.''. More : What newcomers need to know about Marvel's ``Secret Wars''. Munn will join a cast that includes James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender and Jennifer Lawrence in the movie, which hits theaters May 27, 2016. Munn is repped by Creative Artists Agency and Atlas Artists. More : Does the big plot twist in ``Terminator Genisys'' blow up the franchise ?. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Some of the men and women of the Indianapolis police force are giving up their blues. Beginning Friday, blue uniform shirts will be traded for white ones for command staff members of the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department ( IMPD ). In a statement, the department said the change is being made as part of its constant effort to ensure ``accountability, professionalism and transparency.. at the forefront of our day-to-day activities.''. As police departments around the country see more protests over the use of lethal force, IMPD officials acknowledge that this is a time of ``increased scrutiny of police operations and tactics,'' but said the decision to change the uniform for certain ranks within the department is ``not related to any specific, individual incident occurring elsewhere in the United States.''. Although it's not a total uniform makeover, police officials said the white shirts will make command-level staff immediately identifiable to those who don't recognize the rank badges on officers' collars, the statement said. The new color will be worn by majors, district commanders, deputy chiefs, assistant chiefs and the chief of police. ``Command staff personnel have the responsibility of publicly leading from the front, while being accessible to the members of the general public they serve,'' the statement said. ``Those wearing white uniform shirts can and should be viewed as the final point of contact to the police department.''. Some studies have shown that while any police uniform is usually perceived by the public as a sign of authority, lighter-colored uniforms may give a sense of goodness and safety.
London ( CNN ) Congolese immigrant Tarsis Mboma Thale has a small business selling T-shirts in Johannesburg, South Africa. Thale's job normally requires him to walk the streets of the city he has called home for the past few years. But at the moment, he says, this is not an option. Because he is simply too afraid. The reason is a wave of anti-immigrant violence that has swept the country in recent days, leaving several dead as authorities scrambled to detain those responsible and prevent further bloodshed. The cause of this surge in violence is murky, with some blaming alleged inflammatory comments about foreign nationals from the Zulu king, local media reported, others saying a labor dispute between locals and foreigners back in March turned nasty. Unemployment in impoverished areas has also been a factor. The violence has caused thousands of immigrants to seek refuge at police stations and shelters. Thale fears he'll be attacked if he goes to work. ``I'm scared to go to town because I do not know when these people can attack and it's stressful for me,'' he told CNN. ``We're close to month end -- how am I going to pay the rent and feed my wife ?''. CNN spoke to several immigrants living and working in South Africa about the crisis, which has caused South African President Jacob Zuma to postpone an overseas visit and left authorities scrambling to prevent further clashes. On Tuesday the country's Defense Minister said South Africa would deploy troops to areas where police spread too thin in order to halt the attacks. Zimbabwe immigrant Stanley Ndlovu says he is so frightened he dare not venture outside, not even to go to the local mall. He works in Johannesburg as a cleaner and gardener, and also runs a small tuck shop where workers can buy food and basic supplies at his place of work. It's a role he hears many South Africans say should belong to them alone. He feels the South African government has been far too slow to respond to the violence, which has erupted intermittently in various cities over the past few years. ``To stop violence they need to arrest and sentence the perpetrators,'' he says. Meanwhile, Eric Kalonji left the Democratic Republic of Congo and arrived in the South African capital in 2012, working as a waiter until the restaurant he worked at closed in January. Now devoting himself to his studies in New Zealand, he feels that the situation in South Africa is more complex than a simple case of ``us versus them.'' He believes the blame lies heavily on what he calls the government's failure to provide its people with jobs and education. ``This xenophobia thing is the result of a deeper malaise ( in ) South Africans'' he says. ``A better policy from the government should be empowering the people with wider access to education so that they will qualify for the jobs that they say they deserve.''. OPINION : Labeling South Africa turmoil `xenophobia' scapegoats poor blacks. Kodwo Amissah Benyi, a hotel receptionist originally from Ghana, now lives in the town of Louis Trichardt in South Africa's Limpopo province. He's far from the worst of the violence, but still close enough to follow the news with alarm. ``I fear it may spread because I don't know what may spark unrest,'' he said. However he praised the government's response to the attacks. ``The government is in crisis mode and Pretoria ( the South African government ) is responding well by verbally condemning the attacks and showing force on the ground,'' he said.
( CNN ) They left Iran unwillingly, often in a hurry. It was for the best for these refugees. Iran is a difficult place to be gay or lesbian. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the former President of Iran, famously said during a 2007 trip to the United States, ``In Iran, we don't have homosexuals, like in your country.''. Of course, they do live there, in fear of being discovered. Homosexuality is illegal. You can be executed if convicted of engaging in sexual acts. Kissing another person of the same sex can earn corporal punishment, like lashes. Others have been pressured to undergo gender reassignment. Psychologists in Iran have reportedly pushed LGBT patients toward hormone therapy and eventually surgery. Some flee the country before surgery, as do other homosexuals who believe they may be outed. Many come to Turkey, and the small town of Denizli is host to hundreds of gays and lesbians from Iran who are now in limbo. Photographer Laurence Rasti, the Swiss-born daughter of Iranian parents, flew from her home in Geneva, to Denizli to explore her fascination with identity issues in Iran. ``I couldn't understand that in Iran ( homosexuality ) isn't accepted,'' she said recently by phone from Geneva. ``A lot of my friends are gay. And for me it was a huge cultural difference between Europe and Iran.''. Rasti, whose yearlong project was part of her studies at Ecole Cantonale d'Art de Lausanne, said that when she first went to Turkey, it was difficult to get people to pose. They didn't trust her motives, didn't trust strangers, she said. It was a process to become friends. She would talk to the potential subjects about their stories then discuss with them her ideas for what the photo would be like. ``I took a little part of their story to imagine a photograph,'' she said. There was another challenge. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. ``It was a work about identity even though we don't see faces,'' she said. She hopes the images will give back to each of these people the face that their country has ``temporarily stolen.''. Rasti, 25, said once people understood her sincerity, and the anonymity of the project, they agreed to be photographed. Rasti, a photographer for four years, used her Mamiya 7 to give people a view into the spirit of these refugees. Despite their status -- they can not earn a living in Turkey and it take years to getting papers to go to a new country -- the refugees are still full of hope and love despite their rough lives, Rasti said. It's even more remarkable, she said, when you consider how they never imagined having to flee the land they loved and then lie to their families, many telling their kin they left to pursue their studies. Most will eventually go on to a third country. Rasti said she remains friends with some of her subjects who now live in Canada. A few will return to Iran, hoping to keep their homosexuality a secret. Rasti hopes her photos spark dialogue. ``The reason I did this project is, I want use photos to talk about something that I think is important,'' she said. ``I wanted to let people know people know it is not unnatural. When people are afraid of something or don't accept something, I think we should talk about it.''. Laurence Rasti is a Swiss-born Iranian photographer based in Geneva.
( CNN ) Marvel Comics superhero Hawkeye is a master with the bow and arrow. He's also got a secret super-talent at singing Ed Sheeran parodies. The'' Avengers'' character ( played by Jeremy Renner ) was a guest on ``The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,'' where he got behind the piano to showcase some of his other skills. Billboard : Jimmy Fallon hits hot 100 with `Ew !,' featuring will.i.am. ``Listen I've got powers too, and they're pretty sweet. I promise I can do so much more than just archery,'' he crooned to a reworked version of ``Thinking Out Loud''. Those talents, we're told, include his collection of scarves and berets, his abilities on the trombone and he can open a pickle jar. Nope, Thor would definitely thump him in a fight. Renner has proved he's more than a one-hit wonder by starring in both ``Avengers'' films, the Oscar-winning ``The Hurt Locker,'' ``American Hustle : and films in the ``Bourne'' and ``Mission Impossible'' franchises. Watch the clip below :. See the original story at Billboard.com. © 2015 Billboard. All Rights Reserved.
Los Angeles ( CNN ) Former rap mogul Marion ``Suge'' Knight pleaded not guilty Thursday to murder and all other charges related to a fatal hit-and-run incident in January in Compton, California. His attorney asked the court to further reduce Knight's bail, now set at $ 10 million, but Los Angeles County Judge Ronald Coen denied the request. The judge lowered Knight's bail earlier this month, to $ 10 million from $ 25 million, after defense lawyers called the $ 25 million figure excessive for the circumstances. Knight faces one count of murder for the death of Terry Carter, one count of attempted murder in the case of Cle ``Bone'' Sloan, who was maimed in the incident, and one count of hit-and-run. Knight, 49, faces up to life in prison if convicted. He is accused of running over the two men during an argument. In court testimony earlier this month, Sloan, 51, declined to identify Knight as his attacker because Sloan doesn't want to be a ``snitch'' who sends Knight to prison, according to CNN affiliates KABC and KTLA. Prosecutors offered Sloan immunity, but he still refused to testify against Knight during the preliminary hearing, the affiliates reported. The deadly incident occurred about 11 miles south of downtown Los Angeles on January 29, after a flare-up on the set of the biopic ``Straight Outta Compton,'' a film about the highly influential and controversial rap group N.W.A. At the time, Knight was out on bail in a separate robbery case. The alleged argument spilled over to the parking lot of Tam's Burgers in Compton. The hit-and-run was captured on videotape, which shows Knight inside a red truck. In the video, the truck pulls into the entrance of the Compton restaurant and is approached by Sloan, who was working security at the site. The two men appear to talk for a few moments, with Knight still in his vehicle. Suddenly, the vehicle backs up, knocking Sloan to the ground. While still in reverse, the truck moves out of range of the security camera. The vehicle is then seen zooming forward, back into camera range, running over Sloan a second time, and then running over the second man, Carter, a former rap music label owner. Carter, 55, later died. Knight's attorney Matthew Fletcher has argued that Knight was the victim and was only defending himself against Sloan, whom the defense attorney accused of possessing a gun at the time. Fletcher added that Knight's defense was to stand his ground. The incident is the latest run-in with the law for Knight, who founded the wildly successful Death Row Records in 1991 and signed artists such as Snoop Doggy Dogg ( now known as Snoop Lion ) and Tupac Shakur. Knight was driving the car in which Shakur was a passenger when the rapper was shot to death in Las Vegas in 1996. Shortly afterward, Knight spent several years in prison for violating parole on assault and weapons convictions. That prison time -- along with Shakur's death, feuds between Knight and a number of rappers, and desertions by Dr. Dre, Snoop and others -- contributed to the label's bankruptcy in 2006. In August, Knight and two other people were shot while inside a celebrity-filled Sunset Strip party hosted by singer Chris Brown on the eve of the MTV Video Music Awards.
( CNN ) The nominations for the 69th Annual Tony Awards were announced Tuesday morning. Past Tony winner and three-time nominee Mary-Louise Parker unveiled the nominees with Bruce Willis, who is set to make his Broadway debut in the upcoming play ``Misery.''. The awards are set to be handed out June 7 in a ceremony airing live at 8 p.m. on CBS ( tape-delayed on the West Coast ) from Radio City Music Hall. Kristin Chenoweth, a nominee for ``On the 20th Century,'' and recent ``Cabaret'' star Alan Cumming are set to host the ceremony. The full list of nominees is below. Best Play. ``The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time''. Author : Simon Stephens. Producers : Stuart Thompson, Tim Levy for NT America, Warner Bros. Theatre Ventures, Nick Starr & Chris Harper for NT Productions, Bob Boyett, Roger Berlind, Scott M. Delman, Roy Furman, Glass Half Full Productions, Ruth Hendel, Jon B. Platt, Prime Number Group, Scott Rudin, Triple Play Broadway, The Shubert Organization, The National Theatre. ``Disgraced''. Author : Ayad Akhtar. Producers : The Araca Group, Lincoln Center Theater, Jenifer Evans, Amanda Watkins, Richard Winkler, Rodger Hess, Stephanie P. McClelland, Tulchin/Bartner Productions, Jessica Genick, Jonathan Reinis, Carl Levin/Ashley De Simone/TNTDynaMite Productions, Alden Bergson/Rachel Weinstein, Greenleaf Productions, Darren DeVerna/Jere Harris, The Shubert Organization, The David Merrick Arts Foundation. ``Hand to God''. Author : Robert Askins. Producers : Kevin McCollum, Broadway Global Ventures, CMC, Morris Berchard, Mariano V. Tolentino, Jr., Stephanie Kramer, LAMS Productions, DeSimone/Winkler, Joan Raffe & Jhett Tolentino, Timothy Laczynski, Lily Fan, Ayal Miodovnik, Jam Theatricals, Ensemble Studio Theatre, MCC Theater. ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. Co-Authors : Hilary Mantel and Mike Poulton. Producers : Jeffrey Richards, Jerry Frankel, Matthew Byam Shaw, Nia Janis & Nick Salmon for Playfull Productions UK, Carole Shorenstein Hays, Jam Theatricals, Ron Kastner, Kyodo Tokyo, Inc., Tulchin Bartner Productions, WLE MSG, Jane Bergère, Scott M. Delman, Rebecca Gold, Just for Laughs Theatricals, Kit Seidel, Triple Play Productions, Gabrielle Palitz, Georgia Gatti, Jessica Genick, Will Trice, The Shubert Organization, The Royal Shakespeare Company. Best Musical. ``An American in Paris''. Producers : Stuart Oken, Van Kaplan, Roy Furman, Stephanie McClelland, Darren Bagert, Carole L. Haber, James Nederlander, Five Cent Productions, Michael Leavitt, Apples and Oranges Studios/Dominion Pictures, Roger Berlind/Arch Road, Simone Genatt Haft/Marc Routh, Triptyk Studios/Spencer Ross, Ed Walson/Peter May, Adam Zotovich/Celia Atkin, Eugene Beard/Julie Boardman/Kalish-Weinstein, Stuart Ditsky/Jim Herbert/Sandy Robertson, Suzanne Friedman/Independent Presenters Network/Wonderful Productions, The Leonore S. Gershwin 1987 Trust/Jenkins-Taylor/Proctors, Harriet Newman Leve/Jane Dubin/Sarabeth Grossman, Caiola Productions/Jennifer Isaacson/Raise the Curtain, Elephant Eye Theatrical & Pittsburgh CLO, Théâtre du Châtelet. ``Fun Home''. Producers : Fox Theatricals, Barbara Whitman, Carole Shorenstein Hays, Tom Casserly, Paula Marie Black, Latitude Link, Terry Schnuck/Jack Lane, The Forstalls, Nathan Vernon, Mint Theatrical, Elizabeth Armstrong, Jam Theatricals, Delman Whitney, Kristin Caskey & Mike Isaacson, The Public Theater, Oskar Eustis, Patrick Willingham. ``Something Rotten !''. Producers : Kevin McCollum, Broadway Global Ventures, CMC, Mastro/Goodman, Jerry & Ronald Frankel, Morris Berchard, Kyodo Tokyo Inc., Wendy Federman, Barbara Freitag, LAMS Productions, Winkler/DeSimone, Timothy Laczynski, Dan Markley, Harris/Karmazin, Jam Theatricals, Robert Greenblatt, Jujamcyn Theaters. ``The Visit''. Producers : Tom Kirdahy, Edgar Bronfman, Jr., Tom Smedes, Hugh Hayes, Peter Stern, Judith Ann Abrams, Rich Affannato, Hunter Arnold, Carl Daikeler, Ken Davenport, Bharat Mitra & Bhavani Lev, Peter May, Ted Snowdon, Bruno Wang Productions, Taylor Cleghorn, Sandi Moran, Mark Lee & Ed Filipowski, Blodgett Calvin Family, Gabrielle Palitz/Weatherby & Fishman LLC, Marguerite Hoffman/Jeremy Youett, Carlos Arana, Veenerick & Katherine Vos Van Liempt, 42nd. Club/Silva Theatrical, Kate Cannova/Terry Loftis, The Shubert Organization, Williamstown Theatre Festival. Best Revival of a Play. ``The Elephant Man''. Producers : James L. Nederlander, Terry Allen Kramer, Catherine Adler, Roger Berlind, Caiola Productions, Patrick Catullo, Roy Furman, Larry Hirschhorn, Jeffrey Finn Productions, Van Kaplan, Edward M. Kaufmann, Hal Luftig, Arielle Tepper Madover, Peter May, Stephanie P. McClelland, The Shubert Organization, Douglas Smith, Jonathan M. Tisch, WLE MSG, LLC., Scott & Brian Zeilinger, Williamstown Theatre Festival. ``Skylight''. Producers : Robert Fox, Scott Rudin, Eli Bush, Roger Berlind, William Berlind, Roy Furman, Jon B. Platt, The Shubert Organization, Stephanie P. McClelland, Catherine Adler, Jay Alix & Una Jackman, Scott M. Delman, Heni Koenigsberg, Spring Sirkin, Stuart Thompson, True Love Productions, The Araca Group, Carlos Arana, David Mirvish, Joey Parnes, Sue Wagner, John Johnson. ``This Is Our Youth''. Producers : Scott Rudin, Eli Bush, Roger Berlind, William Berlind, Jon B. Platt, Roy Furman, The Shubert Organization, Ruth Hendel, Scott M. Delman, Stephanie P. McClelland, Sonia Friedman, Tulchin Bartner, The Araca Group, Heni Koenigsberg, Daryl Roth, Joan Raffe & Jhett Tolentino, Catherine & Fred Adler, Joey Parnes, Sue Wagner, John Johnson, Steppenwolf Theatre Company. ``You Can't Take It with You''. Producers : Jeffrey Richards, Jerry Frankel, Jam Theatricals, Dominion Pictures, Gutterman & Winkler, Daryl Roth, Terry Schnuck, Jane Bergère, Caiola Productions, Rebecca Gold, Laruffa & Hinderliter, Larry Magid, Gabrielle Palitz, Spisto & Kierstead, SunnySpot Productions, Venuworks Theatricals, Jessica Genick, Will Trice, Roundabout Theatre Company, Todd Haimes, Harold Wolpert, Julia C. Levy, Sydney Beers. Best Revival of a Musical. ``The King and I''. Producers : Lincoln Center Theater, André Bishop, Adam Siegel, Hattie K. Jutagir, Ambassador Theatre Group. ``On the Town''. Producers : Howard and Janet Kagan, Severn Partners Entertainment, Bruce Robert Harris and Jack W. Batman, Paula Marie Black, Nigel Lythgoe, Michael J. Moritz,, Jr., Mahoney/Alden/Badway, Ambassador Theatre Group, Margie and Bryan Weingarten, Kim Schall, Michael Rubenstein, Terry/Louise/Chris Lingner, Brunish & Trinchero, Stephanie Rosenberg, Laruffa & Hinderliter, Rubinstein/Handleman, Lizbeth Bintz, Riki Kane Larimer, 24 Hour Adventure Production, A&A Gordon, Matt Ross/Ben Feldman/Pamela Cooper, Barrington Stage Company. ``On the Twentieth Century''. Producers : Roundabout Theatre Company, Todd Haimes, Harold Wolpert, Julia C. Levy, Sydney Beers. Best Book of a Musical. ``An American in Paris,'' Craig Lucas. ``Fun Home,'' Lisa Kron. ``Something Rotten !'' Karey Kirkpatrick and John O'Farrell. ``The Visit,'' Terrence McNally. Best Original Score ( Music and/or Lyrics ) Written for the Theatre. ``Fun Home''. Music : Jeanine Tesori. Lyrics : Lisa Kron. ``The Last Ship''. Music & Lyrics : Sting. ``Something Rotten !''. Music & Lyrics : Wayne Kirkpatrick and Karey Kirkpatrick. ``The Visit''. Music : John Kander. Lyrics : Fred Ebb. Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role in a Play. Steven Boyer, ``Hand to God''. Bradley Cooper, ``The Elephant Man''. Ben Miles, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. Bill Nighy, ``Skylight''. Alex Sharp, ``The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time''. Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role in a Play. Geneva Carr, ``Hand to God''. Helen Mirren, ``The Audience''. Elisabeth Moss, ``The Heidi Chronicles''. Carey Mulligan, ``Skylight''. Ruth Wilson, ``Constellations''. Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role in a Musical. Michael Cerveris, ``Fun Home''. Robert Fairchild, ``An American in Paris''. Brian d'Arcy James, ``Something Rotten !''. Ken Watanabe, ``The King and I''. Tony Yazbeck, ``On the Town''. Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role in a Musical. Kristin Chenoweth, ``On the Twentieth Century''. Leanne Cope, ``An American in Paris''. Beth Malone, ``Fun Home''. Kelli O'Hara, ``The King and I''. Chita Rivera, ``The Visit''. Best Performance by an Actor in a Featured Role in a Play. Matthew Beard, ``Skylight''. K. Todd Freeman, ``Airline Highway''. Richard McCabe, ``The Audience''. Alessandro Nivola, ``The Elephant Man''. Nathaniel Parker, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. Micah Stock, ``It's Only a Play''. Best Performance by an Actress in a Featured Role in a Play. Annaleigh Ashford, ``You Can't Take It with You''. Patricia Clarkson, ``The Elephant Man''. Lydia Leonard, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. Sarah Stiles, ``Hand to God''. Julie White, ``Airline Highway''. Best Performance by an Actor in a Featured Role in a Musical. Christian Borle, ``Something Rotten !''. Andy Karl, ``On the Twentieth Century''. Brad Oscar, ``Something Rotten !''. Brandon Uranowitz, ``An American in Paris''. Max von Essen, ``An American in Paris''. Best Performance by an Actress in a Featured Role in a Musical. Victoria Clark, ``Gigi''. Judy Kuhn, ``Fun Home''. Sydney Lucas, ``Fun Home''. Ruthie Ann Miles, ``The King and I''. Emily Skeggs, ``Fun Home''. Best Scenic Design of a Play. Bunny Christie and Finn Ross, ``The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time''. Bob Crowley, ``Skylight''. Christopher Oram, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. David Rockwell, ``You Can't Take It with You''. Best Scenic Design of a Musical. Bob Crowley and 59 Productions, ``An American in Paris''. David Rockwell, ``On the Twentieth Century''. Michael Yeargan, ``The King and I''. David Zinn, ``Fun Home''. Best Costume Design of a Play. Bob Crowley, ``The Audience''. Jane Greenwood, ``You Can't Take It with You''. Christopher Oram, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. David Zinn, ``Airline Highway''. Best Costume Design of a Musical. Gregg Barnes, ``Something Rotten !''. Bob Crowley, ``An American in Paris''. William Ivey Long, ``On the Twentieth Century''. Catherine Zuber, ``The King and I''. Best Lighting Design of a Play. Paule Constable, ``The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time''. Paule Constable and David Plater, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. Natasha Katz, ``Skylight''. Japhy Weideman, ``Airline Highway''. Best Lighting Design of a Musical. Donald Holder, ``The King and I''. Natasha Katz, ``An American in Paris''. Ben Stanton, ``Fun Home''. Japhy Weideman, ``The Visit''. Best Direction of a Play. Stephen Daldry, ``Skylight''. Marianne Elliott, ``The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time''. Scott Ellis, ``You Can't Take It with You''. Jeremy Herrin, ``Wolf Hall Parts One & Two''. Moritz von Stuelpnagel, ``Hand to God''. Best Direction of a Musical. Sam Gold, ``Fun Home''. Casey Nicholaw, ``Something Rotten !''. John Rando, ``On the Town''. Bartlett Sher, ``The King and I''. Christopher Wheeldon, ``An American in Paris''. Best Choreography. Joshua Bergasse, ``On the Town''. Christopher Gattelli, ``The King and I''. Scott Graham & Steven Hoggett for Frantic Assembly, ``The Curious Incident of the Dog. in the Night-Time''. Casey Nicholaw, ``Something Rotten !''. Christopher Wheeldon, ``An American in Paris''. Best Orchestrations. Christopher Austin, Don Sebesky, Bill Elliott, ``An American in Paris''. John Clancy, ``Fun Home''. Larry Hochman, ``Something Rotten !''. Rob Mathes, ``The Last Ship''. Recipients of Awards and Honors in Non-competitive Categories. Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre. Tommy Tune. Special Tony Award. John Cameron Mitchell. Regional Theatre Tony Award. Cleveland Play House, Cleveland, Ohio. Isabelle Stevenson Tony Award. Stephen Schwartz. Tony Honors for Excellence in the Theatre. Arnold Abramson. Adrian Bryan-Brown. Gene O'Donovan. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Love it or hate it, Jared Leto's interpretation of the Joker is an internet sensation. The Oscar winner put on white makeup ( and a lot of tattoos this time ) to portray the Clown Prince of Crime in the upcoming movie ``Suicide Squad.''. Set for release August 5, 2016, ``Suicide Squad'' is based on the DC Comics series and also stars Will Smith, Margot Robbie and Viola Davis. Twitter users got their first look at Leto in character Friday night, and the memes started almost immediately. From comparisons to ``Home Alone'' to an imagining of Ben Affleck tatted up, people on social media put their Photoshopping skills to work all weekend. Which is your favorite ?
( CNN ) It's a hard-knock life, Jay Z, especially on Twitter. The uber private rapper/entrepreneur broke out of his usually reserved social media shell over the weekend to defend the performance of his new music streaming service, Tidal. Using the hashtag #TidalFacts, he attempted to refute talk that the company has been doing a less than stellar job in taking on competitor Spotify. He launched the subscription-based music service last month with a star-studded news conference in which artists such as Madonna, Kanye West, Daft Punk and Jay Z's wife, Beyonce, came together in support of what singer Alicia Keys told the crowd was ``The first ever artist-owned global music and entertainment platform.''. CNN Money : Jay Z's TIDAL music service to be owned by artists. But less than a month after its debut, there's been chatter that the service is underwhelming, and Jay Z's ``stream of consciousness'' tweets denying that were met with some derision. And, of course, a Tidal Facts parody Twitter account was quickly created to offer some ``facts'' of its own.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Good news arrived Thursday for ``Fifty Shades of Grey'' fans. Universal announced Thursday that the sequel to the box office blockbuster will hit theaters on Feb. 10, 2017. The third film in the series will debut Feb. 9, 2018. The news came one day after The Hollywood Reporter reported exclusively that the husband of EL James, author of the ``Fifty Shades'' trilogy, will write the script for the second film. Niall Leonard, who is married and has two sons with the British author, is an author himself, in addition to being a screenwriter. James, whose real name is Erika Leonard, has been credited with keeping a strong amount of creative control when it comes to Universal's adaptations of her books, the second of which is titled ``Fifty Shades Darker.'' After clashing with James, Sam Taylor-Johnson isn't returning to direct the sequel. Stars Dakota Johnson and Jamie Dornan are negotiating for more money for the sequel after the first film, release over Valentine's Day weekend of this year, earned a massive $ 568.8 million worldwide. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) People magazine has anointed Sandra Bullock the world's most beautiful woman of 2015, the publication revealed on Wednesday. Bullock, 50, joins a long line of actresses to receive the honor, including last year's cover girl, Lupita Nyong `o, and Gwyneth Paltrow in 2013. She seems to be taking it all in stride, calling the whole thing ``ridiculous.''. ``Real beauty is quiet. Especially in this town, it's just so hard not to say, `Oh, I need to look like that,''' she told People. ``No, be a good person ; be a good mom ; do a good job with the lunch ; let someone cut in front of you who looks like they're in a bigger hurry. The people I find most beautiful are the ones who aren't trying.''. The cover story focuses on Bullock's home life with her son, Louis, 5, and her efforts to stay healthy and fit past her 40s. ``I was putting him to bed and told him that even when I'm old and gray and more wrinkly than I am now, I'll still love him and want to tuck him in,'' she said. ``And he asked why I have wrinkles, and I said, `Well, I hope some of them are from laughing so much.' And he touched my face and said, `You're not old, you're just happy.'''. The Oscar-winning star of movies including ``Gravity,'' ``The Blind Side'' and ``Crash'' said she's happy with who she is. ``As long as I'm healthy and strong and I don't let this mind of mine run amok with insecurities about what I am not, I can look in the mirror and like who I see.''. The selection of Bullock, the oldest woman to receive top honors in the history of the list, is a sign that beauty knows no age, say some. ``Great choice ! Gorgeous, talented, over 50 and FABULOUS ! That's the way it's done !'' wrote one fan on People's Facebook page. Also making the ``most beautiful'' cut this year : Gabrielle Union, Ariana Grande and Laverne Cox. The issue hits newsstands Friday.
( CNN ) Famed cosmologist Stephen Hawking has proved his comedy chops on shows like ``The Big Bang Theory,'' and now he's trying his hand at musicals. Hawking has partnered with the silly lads of Monty Python to recreate the signature ``Galaxy Song'' from their 1983 film ``The Meaning of Life.'' The collabo is in honor of Saturday's Record Store Day, when the 7-inch single will be available for sale. The accompanying video is guaranteed to be the most awesome thing you see today. In it, fellow scientist Brian Cox rails against the inaccuracies in ``Galaxy Song'' when a fed-up Hawking, who has ALS, zooms up in his wheelchair and knocks over Cox. Hawking continues singing the song in his signature computerized voice. Hawking then launches into the stratosphere for a trippy ride and lesson on the cosmos. The scene is derived from a filmed bit that Monty Python uses during its live shows. 40 years of `Holy Grail' : The best of Monty Python. ``Galaxy Song'' song was written by Python member Eric Idle, along with John Du Prez, and is ``an intricate and informative lecture on the enor-mity of the Universe fashioned into a bewitching and, above all, highly amusing pop song,'' according to the comedy troupe's site. Hawking's version is available for download. It's not Hawking's first music gig ; he's also featured on the Pink Floyd song ``Talkin' Hawkin.'''. The original version of ``Galaxy Song'' is below. A sampling of the lyrics : ``Just remember that you're standing on a planet that's evolving and revolving at 900 miles an hour. That's orbiting at 19 miles a second so it's reckoned. A sun that's the source of all our power. The sun and you and me and all the stars that we can see are moving at 1 million miles a day. In an outer spiral arm at 40,000 miles an hour of the galaxy we call the Milky Way.''
( CNN ) He was impressively polite and bright in the eyes of his boyhood teachers, an encourager of his college friends. He was a docile captured killer in the care of paramedics tending to his gunshot wounds. Dzhokhar ``Jahar'' Tsarnaev's defense team is seeking to spare him from a death sentence for his part two years ago in the Boston Marathon bombings and murder of an MIT police officer. Having focused on his dead older brother, portraying Tamerlan Tsarnav as harsh, overbearing and bent on jihad, they now shift to the younger brother who tagged after him, as one witness said, ``like a puppy.''. The sentencing phase of the federal case will resume Monday. The jury was sent home Thursday because a juror was sick. Tsarnaev was convicted April 8 on all 30 counts, including 17 that carry a possible death penalty. The defense's transition from one brother to the other begins in the ambulances that rushed the brothers from their respective final showdowns with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, on April 19, 2013. Boston bombing survivor : I am not limiting myself. Tamerlan, dying from gunshot wounds and having been run over by the car his brother was driving as he fled, became combative in the ambulance. A paramedic testified Wednesday that it was common for patients in shock to become agitated and fight back. ``He had an abdominal wound, it was an evisceration,'' said paramedic Michael Sullivan. It was a ``penetrating wound,'' with the intestines protruding. ``Every time we tried hands-on, he resisted that type of treatment,'' Sullivan said. ``He was yelling, loud, like an `rrrrrrrr' type of thing. It was like he was trying to get out of the seat belts that were holding him on'' the stretcher. Jahar, on the other hand, was cooperative after his capture hours later -- until a tourniquet was applied too tightly, said paramedic Laura Lee. He responded to questions, giving his date of birth and saying he was allergic to cats. And then he asked a question of his own :. ``Where is my brother ?''. The defense showed a series of photographs that demonstrated how the brothers differed in size and age. The younger brother has been portrayed as someone who follows, rather than leads. One of Tamerlan's boxing coaches testified earlier that Jahar followed his brother around ``like a puppy.''. The defense asserts that the Boston Marathon bombings never would have happened if it weren't for Tamerlan. They have portrayed him as obsessed with jihad, spending hours in his computer trolling al Qaeda-style websites. An uncle in Russia told the FBI that Tamerlan came there in 2012, expecting to find ``jihad in the streets.''. Magomed Kartashov was questioned by the FBI after 40 days in a Russian jail. The FBI summary report of the interview was read in court. Kartashov said his nephew asked him if he had contacts with people ``in the forest,'' as locals referred to the jihadists. Tamerlan's information came from the Internet, but he had surprisingly little knowledge of Islam, the uncle told the FBI. When he asked his nephew why he wanted to go to the forest, he responded that ``jihad was necessary today,'' Kartashov told the FBI. ``I told him to stop or he wouldn't make it to the next tree.''. Jahar, on the other hand, was portrayed in the testimony of five of his former teachers as a smart, sweet kid who worked hard and earned good grades. He was ``super kind, extremely smart, a very hard worker, really a lovely person,'' said Tracey Gordon, his fifth-grade teacher at Cambridgeport School. ``All the teachers loved him,'' said Becki Norris, who had Jahar in her seventh-grade class at Community Charter School, a middle school in Cambridge known for setting its students on the path to ``full ticket'' scholarships to good colleges. ``He was one of our top students, and one of our top athletes,'' Norris said. ``He wasn't a rebel. If you asked him to do something, he'd do it. Like most middle-schoolers, he's need a little push, but he needed just one.''. But after just a few days in the ninth grade, Jahar's mother pulled him out of the school and sent him to Cambridge Rindge and Latin, a large public high school. She was angry that her son had been sent home to change out of his blue pants. ``She was very, very angry because he didn't have clean pants that matched the uniform and they didn't have the money,'' Norris said. ``I thought he liked the school, and I didn't think he wanted to go.''. Norris said she asked Jahar if she could call his mother. ``He flatly said, `No, don't call her.'''. He made friends in high school, and a core group got together regularly for ``bro nights'' during their freshman year at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, two young women testified. They smiled at Tsarnaev from with witness stand, but while he seemed generally more animated in court, he maintained his usual flat expression. ``He was loyal, fun, laid-back,'' said classmate Tiarrah Dottin. She said she had no idea he was listening to jihadi songs or watching al Qaeda videos on his laptop. She bowed her head and wiped tears from her eyes as she stepped off the witness stand and took a seat in the audience. Alexa Guevara testified that Tsarnaev ``was private about his family,'' and did not discuss politics or religion with her. She said when he spoke about the future he said he planned to transfer to the University of Massachusetts Amherst and study marine biology. He was a supportive friend, she added. ``He encouraged me to go to art school,'' she said. She showed him her sketches, and he thought they were good. ``He said I had talent and shouldn't let it go to waste. I should go to art school and do what made me happy. It made me feel really good, like somebody believed in me,'' she said. She ended her testimony with a memory of one of the last times she saw Tsarnaev and the ``bros.'' It was March 2013, during spring break of their sophomore year. They went out to eat and then drove to a spot by the Charles River. ``Jahar went over to his car, and he got a backpack and there were fireworks inside,'' she recalled. ``He set one up and ignited it. It didn't work. The second one did work. We were all whooping and hollering. Jahar was jumping through the firework itself. He was being really silly.''. She sobbed as court recessed for the day, and her cries could be heard in the hallway outside the courtroom. Boston Marathon terror attack fast facts. CNN's Aaron Cooper, Ray Sanchez and Cameron Tankersley contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Much like the ardent young royal-watchers of today, enamored by the Duchess of Cambridge's very being, I was similarly captivated by Diana, Princess of Wales when I was a youngster. She was a rare breed : stunningly beautiful, immediately accessible, witty, charming and endearingly mischievous -- she was one in a million. Of course that was long before the, ``there were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded,'' interviews and tell-all books alleging suicide attempts and acts of betrayal, but back then I was unaware of her more scandalous infamy. I simply adored her.. I still do. As the world awaits the impending birth of William and Kate's second baby, potential names have become the topic of rampant speculation and heated debate. Girls' names are causing the biggest stir, as there seems to be a belief that the couple are expecting a princess. If the assumptions are correct, she will be the first Princess of Cambridge born into the royal family in 182 years. The birth of any baby is cause for celebration, but given recent changes in the laws of succession, her arrival would be a historical one. In choosing a name, titled royals tend to turn to the family tree, rather than a well-thumbed copy of ``1,001 Best Baby Names'' like the rest of us. Traditionally they pick dynastic names, and there are plenty to choose from : Elizabeth, Alice, Victoria and Charlotte have all been frontrunners, but the sentimental favorite among punters remains Diana. In a recent Today Show poll, 32 % of Americans predicted the name was a shoo-in, and in the UK the bookies' odds of a baby named after her late grandmother change almost daily as Diana becomes an increasingly popular choice. That said, in the event the couple do welcome a baby girl, I would hope that they do not opt to name her Diana. Today Diana's name is as divisive as the very institution of monarchy itself : while some have virtually sainted her, others have been vehemently critical, accusing her of being childish, unhinged and self-serving. Contrary to popular belief the Queen was very fond of Diana, but should her name be bestowed as a first name upon the baby, it would be perceived as a slap in the face to the monarchy. In the years since Earl Spencer's scathing attack on the Windsors at Diana's funeral, the nation has moved on and Diana's legacy has been celebrated. She has become a part of royal history. Her memory has been preserved, and the royal family is once again enjoying a renewed sense of popularity. Out of respect to the Queen, Charles, Camilla and the baby herself the couple simply wouldn't do it. Diana's name conjures up both positive and negative responses the world over, and whichever side of the fence you're on, the moniker seems to me an almighty burden for a newborn baby to carry. Since Diana's death almost 18 years ago, William has honored his mother's memory in a private and personal fashion. He has taken on many of her patronages and continued to champion her causes. At his wedding in 2011 the Bishop of London, Richard Chartres, a close friend of Diana and executor of her will, gave the address. The hymn Guide Me O Thou Great Redeemer, which was sung at both Diana's funeral in 1997 and at the memorial marking the tenth anniversary of her death in 2007, was chosen for the royal wedding. Julia Samuel, another close friend of Diana, was asked to serve as Godmother to Prince George. William chose Kensington Palace, his own childhood home, to be the primary residence for his family, and in perhaps the most public acknowledgment of his mother's memory, he gave Kate Diana's engagement ring. William doesn't need to name his second-born child after his mother in order to honour her ; he does so by being a good husband and father. I still miss Diana. She was a one-off, and I don't believe the world will ever witness another quite like her. Daily comparisons to her late mother-in-law are already Kate's cross to bear. Shouldn't a baby girl be spared the same fate ?. Diana's tragic, untimely death and iconic status will ensure her memory is kept alive for generations to come. She wouldn't want her granddaughter to languish in her shadow. She would want her to go out into the world, to make her own mark and help those less fortunate, to enrich the lives of others and to carve out her own unique identity -- as Alice, Elizabeth, Victoria, Charlotte, or -- my own personal pick -- Alexandra.
( CNN ) As the Great Kate Wait of 2015 drags on, giving a whole new meaning to Kate's somewhat unfair noughties nickname, ``Waity Katie,'' bets on the arrival of a new baby a girl continue to be placed at a feverish rate. As of today, 70 % of those laying down their hard earned cash are convinced the world is on the verge of welcoming a new princess. I suspect different parties are hoping for a girl for different reasons. Based on the so called ``Kate Effect'' and subsequent ``George Effect,'' the great British High Street is no doubt salivating at the prospect of record sales should HRH Princess ( fill in the blank ) of Cambridge be spotted in one of their outfits. As one headline blared this week, ``Baby girl could be worth $ 1.5 billion to the country.''. Magazine and newspaper editors are well aware of the dramatic rise in sales when a royal baby hits the cover, especially a little girl. And then there's Disney, which will always appreciate princesses in the zeitgeist, but as with all things relating to the monarchy, there is also a far greater historical significance should a baby girl arrive. There have been 34 Kings and only six Queens over the course of the British Monarchy's thousand-year history, and yet some of the nation's most enlightened times have occurred when a Queen has been on the throne. Elizabeth I led the country through the Golden Age, and Victoria and Elizabeth II -- the two longest reigning monarchs -- both made their mark with perhaps the most illustrious and progressive legacies of all. While it is unlikely this child will ever be crowned, as the daughter of the second-in-line to the throne, her role will be significant. Prince Charles has made no secret of his desire to slim down the monarchy, but in looking at his family's immediate bloodline -- William, Harry and George -- it stands to be a heavily male-dominated one. In an institution viewed by some as archaic and out of touch, it is imperative to have a strong female presence. Princess Anne -- Baby Cambridge's great-aunt -- grew up with three brothers, and was once described as, ``the greatest King the country never had.'' She is patron of more than 200 charitable organizations and carries out some 500 public engagements a year. A noted equestrian, she won two silver medals and a gold at the European Eventing Championships, and was the first member of the royal family to compete at the Olympics. More importantly she has supported her mother throughout her reign, flown the flag for Britain and promoted brand Windsor around the world. As the only girl born to Elizabeth and Philip, she has matched and often surpassed the accomplishments of her brothers. Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie, also true blood princesses, are not ``working members'' of the royal family and generally only roll out for state and ceremonial occasions. So, yes, it would be nice for the baby to be a girl so that we can all ooh and ah over frilly dresses, fairy wings and ballet shoes ( although as a Windsor she's more likely to be mucking out stables and shooting pheasant ), but in truth the birth of a girl matters on a far deeper level : the monarchy needs a baby girl to fill the female void of future generations. The 20th century was ushered in by Queen Victoria and the 21st by Queen Elizabeth II. Should George live to eighty-seven he will be the first monarch of the 22nd century, but as I have said before the British monarchy is anything but predictable. If punters are right and William and Kate do announce the birth of a baby girl as the rightful ``spare,'' it's certainly possible that a seventh Queen may ring in the year 2100. In the event the couple welcomes a boy, however, I sincerely hope there won't be a collective groan of disappointment heard around the world -- after all on the few occasions we have seen Prince George he has been a veritable treat. The birth of any baby is cause for celebration regardless of gender, race, religion or indeed status, and as Prince Harry, the world's most eligible bachelor has shown, games of naked billiards can sell magazines too. READ MORE : Please don't name the royal baby Diana.
Tehran, Iran ( CNN ) The Basij is a militia made up of fighters loyal to Iran's religious leaders ; their mission is to protect the country's Islamic order. To do that, they will go to any lengths necessary, including -- they say -- taking on ISIS. ``We all are prepared to go and destroy ISIS totally,'' one Basij commander told CNN. ``If our Imam, our Supreme Leader orders us, we will destroy ISIS.''. The commander says that, so far, the Basij has not been caught up in the fight against the feared Islamic extremists currently waging war in parts of Iraq and Syria. But Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard's Quds Force, led by General Qassem Suleimani, is already training, advising and supporting Iraqi Shia militias in their fight against ISIS. Suleimani was accused of involvement in the Shia insurgency against U.S. forces during the Iraq war. Today he is a celebrity to many Iraqis and Iranians. That is symbolic of the gulf that still exists between Iran and the U.S., regardless of any thaw in relations in the wake of the recent agreement on a framework nuclear deal and ongoing talks. Iran, militias' involvement in ISIS fight a mixed blessing. Iranian officials, who believe their strategy is making a difference in the fight against ISIS, say they would like better cooperation with the U.S., but point out that the level of trust simply isn't there. ``At the moment, we consider the United States to be a threat to us because its policies and actions are threatening to us,'' said General Ahmad Reza Pourdastan, commander of Iran's ground forces. ``We would like the US to change its rhetoric and tone of voice so that our nation could have more trust in U.S. military leadership.''. And the feeling is mutual : the U.S., which is leading the air campaign against ISIS in Iraq, has denied any direct coordination with Iran. Iran will do what it takes to fight ISIS. Iranians believe air strikes against ISIS are not effective, and feel that the U.S. and its allies are not trying seriously enough to defeat the group. Iran's President Hassan Rouhani told CNN's Christiane Amanpour last September that ``the aerial bombardment campaign is mostly.. a form of theater, rather than a serious battle against terrorism.''. ``The battle in Iraq is very important to Iran,'' explained Mohammed Marandi, a professor at Tehran University. ``The Iranians believe that the Americans, if they wanted to, could do a lot more to put pressure on their allies. And also, if they were serious about air strikes, they could do a lot more.''. It's a point the U.S., of course, disagrees with -- U.S. President Barack Obama has vowed to ``degrade and ultimately defeat'' the terror group. But Iran remains unconvinced. ``If they want to destroy ISIS, it is possible for them to achieve that,'' said Major-General Hassan Firouzabadi, Iran's chief of general staff. ``The U.S. military and intelligence organizations have many ways to strike at ISIS, but we have not seen anything so far except intelligence gathering from the U.S. and Britain,'' he said. ``We hope that one day, because of their national interests and the will of their nations, the U.S. and the UK will decide to really fight ISIS.''. In ISIS, Iran and the U.S. share a common enemy, but -- for now at least -- no apparent common strategy.Will Iran-Saudi proxy war erupt ?
( CNN ) Actress Linda Thompson, Bruce Jenner's second wife, says she can ``breathe a little easier'' knowing her ex-husband has found the strength to publicly declare he is transgender. In a two-hour special that aired Friday, the Olympic gold medalist and ``Keeping Up With The Kardashians'' star said he has the ``soul of a female'' even though he was born with male body parts. Thompson, who had two sons with Jenner during their five-year marriage, was one of many relatives to cheer Jenner for publicly sharing what she had known for decades. ``I have respectfully kept his secrets private and would have taken his confidences to my grave had he not spoken out,'' she said in a column for the Huffington Post. ``He can finally realize his need to be who he authentically is, who he was born to be. That takes tremendous courage. For that I commend him.''. Thompson wrote that she would not have married Jenner if she had known about his ``gender issue'' when they first met. But she's glad she didn't know because she would have missed the chance to share a life with him, including their two sons. ``Looking back, I'm so grateful to God, the universe, and Bruce that I didn't know, and that Bruce played the role in my life that he did,'' she said in the column. The two met in 1979 at a celebrity tennis tournament at the Playboy Mansion, while Jenner was in the process of separating from his first wife. The two married on January 5, 1981, and made Hawaii their home. Their first son, Brandon, was born in 1981, followed by son Brody in 1983. ``The Bruce I knew back then was an easygoing, down-to-earth, casual, romantic, good and loving man. I was extremely happy to have found such a remarkable partner with whom to share my life. I found him to be honorable and, well, just too good to be true. Just too good to be true indeed,'' she wrote. They were a celebrity ``glamour couple'' of the time, appearing regularly on red carpets, hosting charitable fundraisers and traveling the world together for their careers. Jenner's star grew, and was a man that other men aspired to be, and someone women wanted to be with. ``The Bruce I knew back then was unstudied, affable, and seemingly very comfortable in his own skin. So it seemed.''. Thompson said Jenner told her in 1985 that, despite it all, ``he identified as a woman'' and hoped to move forward with the process of becoming a woman.'' Confused and desperate, Thompson suggested therapy to help her understand what he was going through and ``determine if it was something we could overcome or `fix.'''. ``I was pretty ignorant of the fact that being transgender isn't something that can be overcome, fixed, prayed away, exorcised or obliterated by any other arcane notion,'' she said. He considered traveling out of the country for gender-confirmation surgery and returning to the United States identifying as female, where his children could meet him as ``Aunt Heather.''. They separated after going to therapy for about six months and Jenner began taking female hormones and removing his hair through electrolysis. As he started developing breasts, his children began to notice -- a claim that Jenner also made in his interview. Thompson says Jenner did not remain a presence in their lives after he married Kris Kardashian, mother of Kim, Khloe, Khourtney and Rob Kardashian. Together, the couple had two children, Kendall and Kylie. Thompson said she forgives Jenner for those years. He has already ``been held prisoner in his own flesh'' and hopes that his life will get easier now. In addition to ``world's greatest athlete,'' she hopes people will remember him as ``trailblazer for the civil rights of the transgender community.''
( CNN ) Bernie Sanders, my Vermont senator and, indeed, a friend of many years, is now running for president. He noted at his announcement ( with a familiar note of wise irony ) : ``People should not underestimate me.''. To most Americans, of course, Sen. Bernie Sanders is only a name, if that. He is barely known to the general public, which makes him a very long shot indeed to win election to the highest office in the nation. Those who follow politics a little more closely will possibly think of him as some left-wing kook that only the most liberal state in the union would ever dream of electing to the Senate, as we did in 2006. Let me add this, as someone who has followed him closely ( and with admiration ) for a long time : When people stop to listen to Bernie, they realize that -- whether or not they agree with his ideas -- he is, without a question, an authentic voice who speaks without fear. And nobody should underestimate him. I remember when Bernie was mayor of Burlington ; it is the largest city in Vermont ( which isn't saying much ). I met him then, and his voice struck me as something not quite heard before. He spoke with a throaty Brooklyn accent, and he was Jewish -- not your typical Vermonter. He served as mayor of this progressive town on the shores of Lake Champlain with remarkable energy for many years, listening closely to what people had to say, learning about politics at the local level, making a real difference in the daily lives of hard-working people. He was never a Democrat -- and isn't yet. He's a progressive, holding his seat in the U.S. Senate as an independent, although he votes with the Democrats on major issues. When Bernie decided to run for Jim Jeffords' seat in the House of Representatives in 1988, many considered him a long shot. I remember hosting a fundraising event at my farmhouse, where Bernie held the floor for almost two hours, answering questions with a forthrightness that stunned those who had never encountered in person his fierce, funny, entertaining, passionate voice. Bernie won that seat, again and again. Make no mistake about this : Vermont isn't just a rainbow-colored state full of ex-hippies and leftists in berets. It's an agricultural economy, and Bernie has understood this well. He has thoughtfully supported Vermont's dairy-farming community over many years. He has also been a strong supporter of Vermont's hunting culture -- much to the annoyance of many on the left, who wonder why the NRA doesn't attack him. I was never prouder of Bernie than during the run-up to the invasion of Iraq. He was a singular and somewhat lonely voice in the House, strongly opposing the 2003 invasion. He saw vividly that this was the worst foreign policy move in American history, one with endless repercussions. He was especially outraged by the outing of former CIA spy Valerie Plame in 2006 by an official from the Pentagon, and he suggested in several fiery speeches that is was time for a serious investigation of how we got into the Iraq War in the first place. This was typical of Bernie : The clear voice in the midst of the crowd, the man who says no when somebody needs to say it loudly. So what would it look like if, by some bizarre chance, Bernie caught fire and became President ?. He would certainly work hard for universal health care, which has been a passion of his. I've heard him rail against the efforts of insurance and drug companies to undermine a system -- the single-payer system -- that has worked well throughout Europe for decades, reducing the costs of health care and actually improving it as well. He would not be Wall Street's best friend. Indeed, he didn't support President George W. Bush in his efforts to bail out the bankers, and wrote an open letter to Henry Paulson, the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, protesting that bailout. Famously, on December 10, 2010, he gave an eight and a half hour speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate opposing the reinstatement of Bush-era tax cuts, a vivid piece of rhetoric worth looking at closely by anyone who wants to understand Bernie's views. He is a socialist, of course. How many American politicians have ever said this aloud ? And what does he really mean by that term ?. Bernie knows what he's doing. By proclaiming himself a socialist, he is drawing attention to the fact that large corporations and banks, many with international bases, have controlled American public policy for a very long time, usually to the detriment of working people. And it's working people who seem mostly to interest Bernie Sanders. He has been one of only a few voices in the Senate in the past decade who has consistently pointed out that extreme right-wing factions funded by ``millionaires and billionaires'' ( one of Bernie's favorite mantras ) have held sway over American politics for as long as anyone can recall. And this sway has usually operated to the detriment of people who actually repair roads, serve meals, deliver the mail, drive trucks and teach in schools. As president, Bernie would also stand up against those who wish to deny climate change. Indeed, Bernie co-sponsored with Barbara Boxer the Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act of 2007. He has, for years, been a tireless advocate for the environment, aware of how its degradation has deeply hurt working people at home and abroad. But does he actually have the slightest chance of winning the Democratic nomination ? And if he won it, could he defeat a Republican candidate with billionaires at his or her disposal ?. He's not crazy. In fact, he's probably the sanest person in the presidential sweepstakes. But he can't win, and he knows that. What he will do, however, is move Hillary Clinton on matters of importance to progressives : The restraining of Wall Street and large corporations, the scandal of how America allows its political campaigns to be funded and the welfare of working class Americans, who seems pathetically easy to persuade -- again and again -- to vote against their own economic interests. A steep climb looms before him. But I applaud Bernie Sanders. I hope he soars and that his brave and commonsensical voice is heard.
( CNN ) I will always remember when things turned. I was 12 years old, and my younger sister and I were with our parents attending a peaceful demonstration in downtown Miami near the courthouse. We were there to protest the acquittal of four police officers in the beating death of unarmed motorcyclist Arthur McDuffie. I had learned the word ``acquittal'' just that day. It meant they wouldn't be held responsible. Community leaders were gathered at the front, speaking to a crowd that was in shock and full of anger and despair. The trial had been covered extensively, and nobody could believe that the fatal beating -- with the extent of the physical wounds to McDuffie's head and body -- could be justified or excused. I started to hear rumblings coming from around the perimeter of the immediate crowd. There was shouting and cursing. Bottle throwing. Then a car was turned over and set on fire. That was Miami 35 years ago, but it could just as easily have been Baltimore this week. The Miami riots of 1980 were the first major ``race riots'' since the wave of riots spread across the nation in the 1960s. Harlem 1964 : Police shooting of 15-year-old James Powell. Watts 1965 : Arrest of 21-year-old Marquette Frye for drunken driving. Newark 1967 : Police beating of John Smith while under arrest. Detroit 1967 : Police raid on a ``blind pig'' after-hours bar. Then the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, and Baltimore and 125 other cities erupted in flames. The immediate catalysts for the waves of riots in the 1960s before the death of Dr. King were police action, or, more specifically, perceived unjust police action. That was true in Miami in 1980 after the acquittal of the police officers. And the same in Los Angeles in 1992 after the acquittal of police officers for the beating of motorist Rodney King. Wednesday marks the 23rd anniversary of the start of the Los Angeles riots. And now we have Baltimore 2015, with the death of suspect Freddie Gray in police custody. My parents were leaders and participants in the nonviolent civil rights movement, and they raised me to understand that youths were the key to the movement. It was the images of young people all over the country -- often facing physical danger, discipline from their parents and suspension from school -- that propelled the civil rights movement into the national spotlight. Juxtapose decades-old images of youths being hosed down by police during nonviolent demonstrations in Birmingham and Selma with Tuesday's images of Baltimore youths throwing rocks at police, and you wonder what has happened. As a 12-year-old girl in Miami, I didn't understand how people could injure and even kill others and destroy their neighborhoods, and risk going to jail, by rioting. I was afraid because I didn't see my father for days as he and other community leaders walked the streets to try to restore calm. I was also afraid that such senseless violence could only derail the legitimate causes of the African-American community, causes historically advanced by nonviolent civil disobedience and through legislative channels. But two months ago, I agreed to moderate a panel at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights called ``Riot -- The Voice of the Unheard ?'' The occasion was to mark the Atlanta premiere of ``Detroit' 67,'' a play written by Dominique Morisseau and directed by Kamilah Forbes that chronicled the journey of a family as they lived through the turmoil of the Detroit'67 riot, including the joy and love they found with one another. The play and the panel were programmed by Kenny Leon's True Colors Theatre Company, a nonprofit devoted to presenting artistic interpretations with diverse voices so that individuals and institutions can have a shared platform in their quest for understanding in American society. Inspired by the mission, I had recently joined the board. Although pegged to the past, the purpose of the panel was to examine how current events relating to police actions against African-American men could potentially lead to rioting and what could be done to prevent it. I learned that some questioned whether riots are actually purposeless and uncontrolled violence, or whether they are purposeful uprisings against individuals and institutions. I learned that those who participate in riots often feel hopeless and dehumanized, both as the victims of police action against them that triggered the riots and as perpetrators of violence during riots. I learned that riots in the 1960s played a role in advancing the civil rights agenda, often by galvanizing local and national government officials to work with peaceful community, church and civil rights leaders to address the root causes of riots. This is a controversial part of our civil rights history that has been sanitized. At the conclusion of the 1967 Detroit riot, President Lyndon Johnson condemned the violence but said in his address to the nation that : ``This is not a time for angry reaction. It is a time for action, starting with legislative action to improve the life in our cities. The strength and promise of the law are the surest remedies for tragedy in the street..''. His administration convened the Kerner Commission to examine the 1965-68 riots, and its findings were that racism had led to joblessness, poverty, a lack of political power, unfair housing, police brutality and inferior schools. After the beating of Rodney King in Los Angeles, the Christopher Commission was established and concluded that racial profiling and excessive force, unjust treatment in the criminal justice system, poor housing, and the lack of jobs and education were triggers for the riots. After all of these riots, the affected city, state and national governments enacted plans and programs to address some of these underlying conditions. Maybe the Baltimore youths involved in the riots felt the way one youth did in Watts in 1965. As recounted in ``The Great Rebellion'' by Kenneth Stahl, Dr. King went to Watts to try to calm tensions, and a hostile youth said to him : ``We won.''. King challenged him : ``How have you won ? Homes are destroyed, blacks are dead in the streets, stores you shop from for food and clothes are destroyed.''. The young man replied, ``We won because we made the whole world pay attention.. the police chief and mayor had never been here. We made them come.''. Dr. King would say near the end of his life : ``It is not enough for me to stand before you tonight and condemn riots. It would be morally irresponsible for me to do that without, at the same time, condemning the contingent, intolerable conditions that exist in our society. These conditions are the things that cause individuals to feel that they have no other alternative than to engage in violent rebellions to get attention. And I must say tonight that a riot is the language of the unheard.''. When I learned that Baltimore high school students planned a purge based on the movie ``The Purge,'' in which people were legally absolved for their anarchistic crimes, it suddenly made sense. They thought they wouldn't be held responsible for their crimes. They thought they would be absolved -- a word not much different from the word ``acquitted'' I learned the day of the Miami riots. But they got it wrong. They will forever live the repercussions of their actions, regardless of the impetus. But the Rev. Jamal Bryant got it right when he said he would open his Empowerment Temple AME Church in Baltimore to youths who would not be in school so he could teach them the power of nonviolence to change society. That power was evident after the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and the decision not to indict the officer who killed him. Those protests were mostly peaceful. And the government responded -- not out of fear of violence, but because of a desire to change the conditions that led to the protests. After several months of investigation, the far-reaching Justice Department report on Ferguson issued in March concluded that the use of policing to raise revenue, combined with a systemic racial bias, had led to a pattern and practice of discrimination and Fourth, 14th, Sixth and First Amendment rights violations against African-Americans in Ferguson. The report made recommendations that the Ferguson Police Department, as well as other departments across the country, should enact to improve police relations in communities of color. The riots in Baltimore have rightfully been quashed, but the voices of nonviolent protesters continue to be heard.
( CNN ) It's time for liberals to look local. With Washington gridlocked over almost everything and congressional Republicans standing firm against any further expansion of domestic policy, the odds of Congress passing another New Deal or Great Society are minimal. It will take a lot of work by Democratic voters and activists to change the numbers on Capitol Hill so that liberal ideas stand a chance of passing. Yet at the state and local level, the story has been much different. Liberal Democrats have found more political space to move forward with their initiatives. In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio has launched an ambitious pre-K education program to broaden access for all of the city's residents. In New Orleans, the mayor has put together a generous housing program to guarantee that there are no veterans without shelter. The drive for same-sex marriage equality took hold in the states before reaching the federal level. States such as Vermont, Oregon, and Washington as well as New Jersey have taken the lead in adopting eco-friendly policies. While Congress has resisted President Barack Obama's call to raise the federal minimum wage to $ 10.10 from $ 7.25, 21 states and the District of Columbia went ahead and enacted minimum wage increases of their own. This is just the tip of the iceberg. At the annual conference for New America in Washington last week, the focus was on innovation. The most exciting ideas are taking hold at the local level. As the Atlantic's James Fallows explained to the audience, when one moves beneath the gridlock of Washington and down to the towns and communities of America, it is quickly possible to see the ``functionality of politics'' -- where partisanship does not trump the need to solve problems. This has given liberals an opening. In Detroit, a company called Detroit Dirt is taking food scraps from local eating establishments and transforming them into compost for gardens to nurture communities and lower the environmental footprint of the city, Pashon Murray said at the New America conference. Jonathan Mintz, the founding president and CEO of Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund, explained how his organization assists local governments to develop global partnerships that help lower - and middle-income Americans gain greater access to banking services. But many liberal Democrats are uneasy about embracing this trend. Since the New Deal in the 1930s, which followed the total collapse of the patchwork of local and state social welfare programs overwhelmed by the weight of the Great Depression, doing things at the national level has been seen as the only way to go. Only by making programs national could policymakers ensure that state and local government officials ( particularly Southern Democrats who had little taste for giving benefits to African-Americans ) could not distribute benefits only to certain portions of the population. Only the federal government had the taxing power necessary to sustain robust domestic initiatives. In this view, it was believed that only Washington policymakers could bring together the best and brightest minds to make sure that programs were designed and administered well. Only through centralized programs, could policymakers ensure that residents of one state didn't receive more meager benefits than in other places. Some programs, like climate change, can only work well if every state has to follow the rules. For the time being, liberals need to abandon that bias. Even if all the fears are warranted, right now there are enough benefits to justify more local programs. The most important obviously is simply practical. This is the only opportunity that liberals have right now of seriously moving forward with new ideas. Local and state politics are also proving to be arenas for great experimentation. This is one of the lessons of the 1910s and 1920s, when liberal activists in states such as New York and Wisconsin experimented with programs ranging from unemployment insurance to the regulation of work conditions. As Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis wrote, a ``state, may if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory ; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country.''. Local policymakers and experts developed these programs for many years before they were ever brought to the national stage. The result is that the policies were stronger and better tested, and some of the bad ideas had been discarded after it became clear they didn't work. When Franklin Roosevelt came to office in the 1930s, he looked to these programs for inspiration about what to do at the national level. The same was true in the 1960s when Lyndon Johnson and the Democratic Congress put together civil rights, anti-poverty and urban development programs that had been implemented at the state level. It was easier for federal officials to build support for their proposals when they could point to successful experiments. Voters could see how they could work and how some of the worst predictions of opponents had not come true. Conservatives have done the same in recent decades. When Republicans pushed for welfare reform in 1996, they drew many ideas from local changes that had been put into place in states such as Wisconsin, which had received waivers from national requirements. The local arena is usually not ideal for creating big domestic policies since it depends on so many actors to sustain, since the politics of each region vary so greatly and since the financial muscle of smaller levels of government is much weaker. Outside Washington's more conservative environment, political conditions in many parts of the United States are producing important opportunities for liberalism to flourish. This vibrant period of local policymaking will help to prepare the groundwork for the next moment -- like the early 1930s or mid-1960s or during the financial crisis of 2008-2010 -- when the doors for legislating will open in Washington.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) When the earthquake struck, we huddled under a concrete beam -- and prayed. In another room, my grandfather could not comprehend what was happening and, instead of seeking cover, drifted towards the window. Outside, a brown dust-cloud rose from the ruins of cottages that had dotted the next hill. I was at my uncle's place in Ramkot, west Kathmandu, some 12 kilometers ( 7.4 miles ) east from my family home. After escaping the building for the safety of open air, my first thought was for news of friends and family. Calls didn't go through but thankfully texts and data did. I heard from everyone except my mother. Worried sick, I foolishly went into the house for a second time to get my belongings and leave for home. Another tremor -- the first of many to aftershocks that have continued to strike an already traumatized city -- shook the house. I took refuge under the same doorway. The journey towards my family home in Sifal was a map of quake destruction, with many houses -- old and new -- torn apart. A high wall surrounding a monastery had collapsed and the nuns had run to a nearby field. A mud-and-brick cottage had fallen on a blue motorbike but no trace could be found of its rider. A woman perched on top of rubble tried to reach for a water container from what used to be her kitchen. Everywhere, survivors gathered wherever they could find open space -- fields, private compounds, empty roadside lots. In Chhauni, an ice cream seller ran double-time with his cart, while his radio relayed the latest. Further ahead, a mother and daughter sat down on a pavement so that a grandchild could be fed. Across the Bishnumati River, uphill towards Maru, I ran to get away from the tall houses and made towards the Kathmandu Durbar Area. It was reduced to rubble. A blood donation camp was said to be buried by the same structure that sheltered it. Locals were searching for survivors, but progress was slow. The Kasthamandap temple had caved in. Temples that sat on impressive staircase-style pyramids were now dust. The western façade of the Basantapur palace had fallen apart and nothing remained of the remained of the nine-story medieval palace nearby. Meanwhile, the curio fleamarket was flooded with people who had made it out of the cramped quarters of Jhocchen, Indra Chowk, New Road, and nearby neighborhoods. In Putalisadak, I met a cousin who was sitting an entrance exam for a prestigious high school when the quake hit before the allotted time was over. He kept wondering out loud whether he could retake the test. The two of us walked through Bagbajar, trying to trace a few acquaintances, and up Dillibajar to Kamalpokhari. A hawker was selling momos -- a Nepalese type of dumpling -- under a seven-story building, while policemen guarded a jailhouse. People gathered mostly in the middle of crossroads, on traffic islands and around metal pulpits, which looked out of range of falling buildings. The aftershocks kept coming. I reached home and found both my parents alive and uninjured. I couldn't believe that our 30-year-old house was still standing. As I walked my cousin to where his parents were, we kept hearing rumors : ``More quakes forecast by experts for 5 p.m. and midnight.''. As if to confirm, tremors shook us at six and more would follow at 10 p.m. and midnight, with smaller shocks throughout the night. Along the northern boundary of the former royal museum, the wall had collapsed and people had poured out of the Uttar Dhoka neighborhood onto the palace lawn. Green military tents meant for two people were now packed with six and the army was trying hard to accommodate as many as possible. In Thamel, an electricity pole had squashed an abandoned taxi. A few men took turns taking photos with the wrecked car. In Kantipath, a handful of backpackers were discussing where to make camp. Back home, my parents decided against going to the nearby Sifal Chaur football field where families were sleeping on plastic mattresses under rudimentary tents. Instead, their tactic was to stay on the ground floor, be awakened by tremors, and then scamper to a corner of our garden that seemed relatively safe. I did not sleep a wink.
( CNN ) It all started by looking up. During an expedition through the Brittany region on the west coast of France, photographer Fabien Le Coq noticed an unusual tree. He positioned himself at the base of the tree and turned his camera upward, filling the frame with the trunk and its spindly branches. ``I'm kind of a walking photographer,'' Le Coq said. ``I love exploring new places. One day I was taking a break during an excursion in the Broceliande forest, looking for the best place to settle, when I discovered a small clearing with a tree without leaves. I stayed for hours looking around, taking some pictures and I found myself lying down under the tree. The tree's branches were rising as if to touch the sky.''. This was the start of the photo series ``Treesome,'' an embodiment of Le Coq's unique way of interacting with the world around him. ``By walking a long time in an environment, landscapes begin to influence on your mood,'' he said. ``As ( landscapes ) change, your feelings do.''. The series, shot between 2012 and 2014, reflects Le Coq's travels through his native France and countries in Central America and Asia. The images are soothing and repetitive ; each tree is photographed from the bottom looking up. But it is from this vantage point that the differences become apparent. Branches take on their own patterns in the sky, creating a symmetry that is both interesting and comforting. A row of trees shot in Paris speaks to the geometry of a modern city. Cactus branches look like spears piercing the sky. Appearance is not the only factor that sets the trees apart. For Le Coq, each image is special because it represents different feelings at different points in time. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. ``Each tree has its own personality,'' he said. ``I chose them by the way I felt at the moment. Sometimes they even change my sentiments. It's kind of a spiritual experience.''. Le Coq says his photographs are meant to bring about pause and reflection. The viewer should ``become a third actor in a scene with trees and skies.'' It is an opportunity to take a break and focus on our own individual journeys. ``Treesome'' is shot in black and white, an aesthetic Le Coq says lends tension ``recalling the gulf on one side and the celestial heights on the other. ``The branches are the mirror of the roots.''. As a freelance graphic designer, Le Coq can work wherever there is an Internet connection. He uses this freedom to travel, discover new places and grow as a photographer. Photography has also allowed Le Coq to explore his home country. ``Sometimes home is full of new possibilities,'' he said. ``You just have to look or change how you look.''. Fabien Le Coq is a photographer based in France. You can follow him on Facebook.
( CNN ) On the morning of April 19, 1995, a man parked a rental truck packed with explosives in front of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. At 9:02 a.m., the explosives detonated, killing 168 people, including 19 children. This wasn't the work of a foreign terrorist group. Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols, former U.S. Army soldiers, were convicted of the attack. McVeigh was executed in 2001, and Nichols is serving a life sentence. Twenty years later, domestic terror threats range from white supremacists to eco-terrorists to anti-government extremists and radical separatist groups, according to the FBI. The FBI's goal, of course, is to prevent ``homegrown attacks'' before they happen. Unfortunately, this isn't always possible. When acts of domestic terror do occur, the FBI investigates and tries to catch those responsible. From McVeigh and Nichols to Eric Rudolph to Ted Kaczynski, the FBI is often successful, but every once in a while, the suspects get away. These are the FBI's most-wanted domestic terrorist fugitives :. It was September 26, 1981, when a crowd gathered at John F. Kennedy International Airport for an anti-apartheid demonstration. Among the protestors, the FBI says, was Donna Joan Borup, an alleged member of the May 19th Communist Organization. The radical group advocated overthrowing the U.S. government. The protest turned violent, and Borup allegedly tossed a caustic substance in the eyes of a Port Authority police officer. According to the Port Authority, he ``lost all or most of his sight.''. Borup and others were arrested and released on bail, but Borup never showed up for her trial. An arrest warrant was issued in 1982. Today, she would be in her late 50s to mid-60s, standing between five feet four inches and five feet six inches. According to the FBI, Borup ``is thought to have a photographic memory and is highly intelligent.'' The FBI considers her ``armed and dangerous.''. Cheri Laverne Dalton is wanted for her alleged involvement in the Brinks Armored Car robbery on October 20, 1981, when a group of political radicals associated with the Black Liberation Army robbed $ 1.6 million from a Brink's truck in Nanuet, New York. Time Magazine reported in November of that year that the attack happened shortly before 4 p.m. when Brink's guards Peter Paige and Joe Trombino loaded the money into their truck. Suddenly armed robbers attacked. They opened fire, killing Paige. Trombino was seriously injured, but survived and kept working for Brinks until he was killed in the September 11, 2001, attacks while making a delivery in the World Trade Center. According to the FBI, the robbers drove away after the Brink's robbery, allegedly meeting up with members of the Weather Underground -- another radical organization. They switched cars and drove off. Following a tip, police caught up to them. A shootout left Nyack police Sgt. Edward O'Grady and Officer Waverly Brown dead. Hip hop artist Tupac Shakur's stepfather, Jeral Wayne Williams ( known as Mutulu Shakur ) is considered by authorities to be the mastermind behind the robbery. In 1988, he received a 60-year prison sentence. He has a parole release date of 2016. On November 17, 1982, a federal grand jury operating in the Southern District of New York returned a superseding indictment charging Dalton with various crimes related to the heist. Dalton has ties to Havana, Cuba, and St. Croix, Virgin Islands. According to the FBI, she is believed to be living in Cuba. Leo Frederick Burt, a 22-year-old aspiring journalist at the time, was part of a group that bombed a building at the University of Wisconsin in 1970 to protest the Vietnam War, the FBI says. It was classified as the largest act of domestic terror until the Oklahoma City bombing. The explosion killed a physics researcher, severely damaged a building at the university and damaged 26 others. According to the FBI, explosives had been placed in a stolen truck three blocks from the building. Burt was part of a radical anti-war group called the New Year's Gang, the FBI says. Angry over the Vietnam War, the group targeted the Army Math Research Center in Sterling Hall at the University of Wisconsin on August 24, 1970. On September 2, 1970, Leo Burt was indicted in Madison, Wisconsin. He was charged with sabotage, destruction of government property, and conspiracy. Burt's three accomplices were arrested and served prison sentences for the crime, but the hunt for Burt continues. Burt may wear glasses, and may have a mustache and beard. He has worn his hair long in the back, according to the FBI. He has ties to New York, Boston, and Peterborough, Ontario. Joseph Mahmoud Dibee and Josephine Sunshine Overaker are thought to be among the last members of the eco-terror group known as ``The Family,'' said to be affiliated with ELF, the Earth Liberation Front, or the Animal Liberation Front ( ALF ). They are suspected to be involved in ``at least 25 domestic terrorism criminal actions totaling over $ 48 million in damages, including the largest eco-related arson in history, a $ 26 million arson at the Vail Ski Resort,'' the FBI said. These alleged crimes occurred in Oregon, Washington, California, Colorado and Wyoming, and date back to 1996 according to the FBI. ELF made no secret of its responsibility for the Vail fire, and on October 19, 1998, issued a statement saying : ``Vail Inc. is already the largest ski operation in North America and now wants to expand even further. The 12 miles of roads and 885 acres of clearcuts will ruin the last best lynx habitat in the state. Putting profits ahead of Colorado's wildlife will not be tolerated.''. Other environmentalists denounced the fires, calling ELF a fringe group whose actions did far more harm than good. On January 19, 2006, a federal grand jury in Eugene, Oregon, indicted Overaker, Dibee and two others -- since arrested -- on multiple charges related to their alleged role in a domestic terrorism cell. The FBI says Overaker is fluent in Spanish. Dibee may have fled to Syria. The FBI has led a long-running, multiple-agency criminal investigation dubbed ``Operation Backfire'' to combat violent elements of the environmental and animal rights groups, which remains open though not active. The case will remain open until Overaker and Dibee are located, apprehended and prosecuted, the FBI said. Elizabeth Anna Duke is wanted for her alleged involvement in a string of crimes spanning the late 1970s through the early 1980s, according to the FBI. Known as an active member of the radical group known as the May 19th Communist Organization, she was slapped with multiple charges. In May of 1985, Duke was arrested in Bucks County, Pennsylvania with Alan Berkman, who was wanted in connection to the 1981 Brinks armored car robbery in Nanuet, New York. She was released on bail, but fled in October. According to the FBI, Duke is known to speak fluent Spanish and has ties to Texas but is also known to travel in the northern United States near the Canadian border. She may have been travelling with Donna Joan Borup who is wanted for allegedly throwing a caustic substance in the eyes of a Port Authority police officer during an anti-apartheid protest at John F. Kennedy International Airport in 1981, the FBI said. William ``Guillermo'' Morales was an explosives expert who allegedly made bombs for an extremist organization violently advocating for Puerto Rican independence. The FALN, translated as The Armed Forces of National Liberation, claimed responsibility for or were blamed for 130 bombings, most of them in New York and Chicago, in the 1970s and early 1980s that caused numerous deaths, injuries and millions of dollars in damage. Morales was captured in May of 1983 in Mexico, but was eventually handed over to Cuban authorities, and the FBI thinks he has lived in Cuba since June of 1988. Morales speaks both English and Spanish. On July 12, 1978, Morales was injured when a bomb he was working on accidentally exploded in East Elmhurst, New York. Badly injured, Morales was taken to a hospital, and arrested. He was held at the Bellevue Hospital prison ward in New York until he was well enough to be transferred to federal prison, but escaped and fled. He is known to wear glasses and may have a beard. On June 3, 1972, Western Airlines Flight 701 was flying from Los Angeles to Seattle with 98 passengers and a crew of seven when Willie Roger Holder and Catherine Marie Kerkow allegedly hijacked the plane, threatening the crew and passengers with a'' bomb in an attache case.'' They demanded $ 500,000, the FBI says. They were trying to force authorities to free Angela Davis, a prominent black militant, then on trial for murder, kidnapping and conspiracy in San Jose, according to author Brendan Koerner, who wrote a book about the history of airline hijacking called ``The Skies Belong to Us.''. Koerner said Davis was informed of the hijacking by the judge in her trial and refused to communicate with the hijackers. According to Koerner, the ransom was paid in San Francisco, where a little more than half of the passengers were released at the airport. The rest, he said, were released at JFK before the couple took off for Algiers. It was a media circus, and the pair were dubbed a modern ``Bonnie and Clyde,'' according to Koerner. ``Basically the hijackers wanted to take Angela Davis to North Vietnam, then head to Australia to homestead in the Outback. Instead, they ended up crashing with the Black Panthers in Algiers.''. On January 25, 1975, Kerkow and Holder were arrested in France when they tried to get in the country using fake passports, but the FBI says Kerkow skipped out before her trial. Holder was eventually extradited to the United States, but Kerkow could be anywhere. The FBI says she may have ties to Oregon, France, Switzerland, Algeria, Jordan and Cuba. Opinion : Homegrown extremist threat remains 20 years after Oklahoma City bombing.
Hong Kong ( CNN ) When she was growing up, Mui Thomas, wanted to be a fashion model -- not an unusual aspiration for a young girl. But Mui suffers from a rare genetic condition that leaves the skin on her face and body red raw and open to infection. ``I really don't think I knew that I didn't look like everybody else,'' she says. She was born with Harlequin ichthyosis, which means her skin is extremely thick, dry and flaky -- resembling fish scales. She can't sweat but she can shed tears. On the day we speak, her appearance raises few eyebrows at her local Starbucks in Sai Kung -- she's a familiar and well-known presence in the waterfront Hong Kong town where she grew up. Mui's struggle to come to terms with her condition and other people's reactions to it has, at times, left her on the brink of suicide. But, now 22, she refuses to let it get in the way of her life -- she has a full-time job, plays sport and is embarking on a career as public speaker -- educating and inspiring others about the challenges of looking ``visibly different.''. After she was abandoned at birth, long-time Hong Kong expats Tina and Rog Thomas began fostering Mui, when she was just one and a half years old. They were told she didn't have long to live. ``We wanted to give her a family life in the time she had,'' says Tina. However, Mui began to thrive in a loving family environment and Tina and Rog formally adopted Mui when she was three years old. Together they gradually learned how to manage her skin condition. Each day she bathes twice, ideally for two hours each time, and everywhere she goes she carries a backpack with three or four tubs of cream that she must apply throughout the day to stop her skin from drying out. She's thought to be the fourth oldest person alive with harlequin ichthyosis. The oldest is 31. But while Mui's unusual appearance made little difference during her early years, that changed when she started secondary school. The school she attended required that she be accompanied by a educational assistant, which put up a barrier between her and the other children and made it difficult for her to make friends. Things got worse when she became a victim of cyberbullying. She began to deny her appearance, stopped bathing, taking her medication and applying the cream. At times, she considered jumping from the balcony of her home. ``They'd say things like `You shouldn't have been born' -- and very personal things that only people who knew me would know,'' she says. ``It made me very wary of everybody. Even when people tried to be nice, I didn't repay it. I didn't trust them.''. The worst episode lasted for 10 months and only stopped after police became involved and found the bully -- someone whom Mui thought was her friend. Mui left school with no qualifications. She says the school didn't push her to study and made too many allowances for her skin disorder. ``I still wish I had got a very hard kick up the backside from the teachers when I wasn't doing work,'' says Mui. Since leaving school, Mui has found a full-time job working with people with special needs and at weekends can be found running around a rugby pitch with a whistle -- she's a referee for kids' matches. Along with her parents, she's also begun speaking about her experiences of living with a ``visible difference'' and cyberbullying at schools around Hong Kong. Her father has also written a family memoir called ``The Girl Behind the Face.''. Many have found her story inspirational -- a real life version of the young adult novel ``Wonder'' by R.J. Palacio about a young boy with a deformed face who enters middle school. On Saturday, she will graduate from school assemblies and speak in front of a paying audience at a TEDx talk in the city. Her father is both protective and proud. He thinks public speaking will help Mui come to terms with her condition but he's also wary that she could be portrayed as a ``modern freak show.''. ``It's difficult for her because she spent so long denying it. The more she confronts it, the more she is aware of it -- it will build confidence,'' he says. There's even talk she might take part in a fashion show for people with visible difference, realizing a childhood dream. In person, Mui comes across as articulate, poised and confident -- something her mom says comes out of spending so much time with adults while growing up -- and it's easy to see how she could command an audience of hundreds. But after two hours of chatting in a coffee shop, she's a little bored and keen to get back to her job. She flings her backpack over her shoulder and dashes off into Hong Kong's crowded streets.
Kano, Nigeria ( CNN ) Hundreds of decomposed corpses were discovered buried in shallow graves in the streets of the northeastern Nigerian town of Damasak this past weekend, according to local officials and a resident. The town had recently been freed from the Boko Haram terror group in a joint Nigerian-Chadian military operation. A provincial government committee was visiting the area as part of an effort to assess the level of destruction in towns that had been in the deadly grip of Boko Haram. ``We found hundreds of dead bodies in shallow graves and on the streets of Damasak during our visit,'' Damasak local government spokesman Babagana Mustapha told CNN on Monday. ``Those bodies in shallow graves have badly decomposed while those found on the streets were desiccated from -LSB- exposure to -RSB- dry winds,'' Mustapha added. The victims included men, women and children murdered by Boko Haram when they seized the area in November, said Abubakar Kyari, a senator-elect for the region. ``The staggering number of dead bodies found in Damasak is a testimony of the large-scale atrocity Boko Haram committed when they were in control of the town'' Kyari added. Mustapha said the bodies were buried in 20 clearly marked mass graves. Although Mustapha did not give a precise number of corpses recovered, Damasak residents who participated in the exhumations put the figure at more than 400. '' We collected over 400 corpses from the streets and in shallow graves during our visit in Damasak,'' said Idris Karimbe, one of the volunteers who took part in the burial. ``The number of bodies we recovered this time around far exceeded the ones found last month,'' said another resident, Musa Bremah. Bremah was referring to the discovery of around 90 bodies in a shallow grave outside Damasak last month after its recapture. A regional military coalition involving troops from Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon has in recent months recaptured swathes of Nigerien territory seized by Boko Haram. The joint military operation is part of an ongoing collaborative effort at crushing the Islamist group that has widened its deadly attacks to Niger, Chad and Cameroon.
( CNN ) April 27 is celebrated as Freedom Day in South Africa, commemorating the country's first democratic elections in 1994 election which saw Nelson Mandela elected as president. The day is widely seen as marking the start of a free South Africa after the fall of apartheid, a system of racial segregation implemented by the white-minority government in South Africa for decades. This year's celebrations come against the backdrop of a spate of anti-immigrant attacks earlier in April in which a number of people lost their lives. Using the #FreedomDay hashtag, people across the country and beyond took to Twitter to celebrate this year's event, express their views and send out their wishes -- including the South African government. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hailed the people of South Africa and sent out a message of hope. Many South Africans used Twitter to denounce the recent violence.. .. whilst others remembered iconic South African freedom fighter Nelson Mandela. Freedom Day didn't go unnoticed by Google, who've changed the doodle to honor the day. Here's a selection of some of other #FreedomDay tweets.
( CNN ) The head of the Libyan Army has rejected the possibility of cooperating with any EU military intervention in his country intended to stem the flow of undocumented migrants trying to reach Europe. In an exclusive interview Friday with CNN's Becky Anderson, Libyan army head Gen. Khalifa Haftar said Libyan authorities had not been consulted and, in any event, military action would not solve the problem. ``We will certainly not cooperate, because we were not involved in resolving this issue,'' Haftar said. ``The decision was taken without consulting the legitimate Libyan side.''. The European Union is struggling to cope with an increasing number of people crowding into unseaworthy boats and trying to reach European shores. Many of the travelers are fleeing violence and poverty in Libya and elsewhere in the region. The capsizing of one vessel last weekend left an estimated 900 people dead. EU leaders are considering a plan that would involve military action against people smugglers at the source -- before they load their boats with human cargo. Of necessity, such an operation would involve operations within the territory of North African countries. But Haftar expressed dismay at the prospect in his interview with CNN. ``Military action against Libyan territory is an unwise decision,'' he said. ``You need to deal with the Libyan crisis as a whole. We are a sovereign country that needs to be respected despite what we are going through right now.''. Haftar did not respond directly when he was asked whether Libyan authorities would confront any European forces within its territory. ``The European Union needs to stand with the Libyan people to solve the crisis instead of taking such decisions,'' the general said. ``The migrant crisis affects them. But why don't they see that our problems are also very important ? It's important for them to support us either on the humanitarian front or on the security front.''. Pressed on the point, Haftar replied, ``We do what's in the interest of the Libyan people. The European Union is looking after its own interests so we will also look after ours.''. But he said Libya is open to other kinds of cooperation on the issue of migration. ``If they take the right approach, we will certainly cooperate,'' he said, referring to EU authorities. ``The appropriate approach will benefit Libya and its fight against terrorism. And I repeat, that means lifting sanctions against Libya -- specifically those against the army.''
( CNN ) A prosecutor has dismissed allegations that Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner tried to cover up Iran's involvement in a 1994 bombing in Buenos Aires. The move by prosecutor Javier de Luca to drop the case could mean a definitive end to the accusations that have roiled the nation, according to Argentina's state-run Telam news agency. The case became of high interest globally after the original prosecutor who brought the allegations was found dead in January. Alberto Nisman was found dead days after making the accusations. His death sparked outrage and conspiracy theories aplenty. Nisman alleged that Argentina's government agreed not to go after Iranian suspects in the bombing in exchange for a favorable trade deal. The 1994 bombing of a Jewish community center in the Argentine capital is the deadliest terror attack in the country's history. Eighty-five people were killed, and hundreds were injured. A second prosecutor took the reins after Nisman's death and took the case to court in February. A judge dismissed the case, saying that Nisman's allegations did not hold up. Following that, the case went to prosecutor de Luca for a possible appeal. On Monday, de Luca announced that in his investigation he found that ``there was no crime here, either carried out or attempted,'' according to Telam.
( CNN ) Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, was once known as the murder capital of the world. Back in 2010, at the height of cartel violence, the city averaged 8.5 killings per day. But five years later, local officials say the city is much safer, and plans are underway to lure foreign tourists and investors back to Juarez. This month the city launched the tourism campaign ``Juarez is Waiting for You.''. The rebranding effort started quietly a year ago, and on April 10, it was on full display. Mayor Enrique Serrano officially kicked off the campaign, giving what he called an ``unprecedented'' high-profile tour to regional leaders from the United States and Mexico. U.S. Rep. Robert ``Beto'' O'Rourke of Texas was one of those on a leg of the Juarez tour. His congressional district includes El Paso, Texas, which sits directly across the Rio Grande. O'Rourke says there's good reason for locals to be hopeful. ``As a region, El Paso and Juarez represent 20 % of all U.S-Mexico trade. The binational ties are strong and have remained strong,'' O'Rourke says. ``Yes, we had a really difficult time for a.. period. Juarez was at one time the deadliest city in the world.''. O'Rourke speaks of a time between 2009 and 2012 when men, women and children were killed indiscriminately. Many were helplessly caught in the cartel violence. Others were victims of the drug turf war. It wasn't that long ago, O'Rourke says, that he thought twice about crossing the bridge into Juarez. '' ( Now ) I travel to Juarez regularly to have lunch or meet people or just to go. I always feel safe and secure.''. A spokesman for the Chihuahua state attorney general's office told CNN that at one point, there were days when Juarez had more than 20 killings. ``That was normal,'' spokesman Julio Castaneda told CNN. ``It's safer now.''. The numbers from the attorney general's office seem to bear that out. More than 3,000 people were killed in the city just four years ago, but so far this year there have been 89 killings, according to Castaneda -- a dramatic decrease in the violence. ``Undoubtedly, the work we did here in the past year with the police institutions, and specifically the local police, helped. There was a coordinated effort between agencies,'' Castaneda said. ``Without a doubt this work played a part in breaking apart the gangs that were plaguing the city.''. The government cleaned up corruption within the local police force, and fired or arrested a lot of bad cops who were helping the cartels. Another factor that may have helped : The turf war between the Juarez and Sinaloa cartels essentially ended, with the Sinaloa cartel claiming victory in the battle for the trafficking route in Juarez. O'Rourke argues that the El Paso-Juarez border is ``safer than it's ever been.'' He cites the ``30 million lawful crosses from El Paso into Juarez'' last year as a symbolic step. Yet there are those who don't want to celebrate too soon. ``For Juarez to be considered a safe city, there's a long way to go,'' says Sergio Meza, executive director for Plan Estrategico de Juarez, an independent organization that works to improve the city's quality of life. ``Just this past year ( in 2014 ) there were 424 homicides. In 2007, there were 272. Yes, we're not as bad. But we're still very sick,'' Meza told CNN from his office in Juarez. ``In reality, we're progressing from the conditions that were generated by the insecurity. We're still working out the corruption in the city. It's still an issue here.''. With more than 40 % of Juarez living below the poverty line, according to Plan Estrategico de Juarez, the future of the city will depend on ``the people's participation in public matters.'' In fact, the organization's slogan is ``Nothing is fixed alone. Participate.''. ``We are looking at a compromised future,'' Meza said. ``We don't talk about that. We don't have the money to generate work here.''. One bright spot : U.S. investment is making a comeback. American companies Delphi, Honeywell, Flextronics and Lear are among those that ramped up hiring and investment in Juarez over the last year. That hiring would have been hard to imagine four years ago. But with the average salary at $ 20 per week for local workers in the maquiladores, or factories, along the U.S.-Mexico border in Juarez, Meza says more needs to be done. The scars from the recent past remain. Several buildings downtown are shuttered and marred by graffiti. Americans who, before the violence, came to Juarez for bargain shopping have not returned in the numbers seen before the spike in violence. But in a sign of progress, the U.S. State Department amended its travel warning for the city. While it still urges visitors to exercise appropriate caution, it's no longer telling people not to come. Longtime residents of Juarez and neighboring El Paso may be reluctant to say the wounds of the violent past have altogether healed. In the last year, however, they have definitely noticed that ``life is back.''. ``I measure it by the everyday coming and going of people,'' Gustavo Reveles, 39, told CNN. ``For someone who grew up on the border and for someone who spent half of his life crossing the border on a weekly basis, it's encouraging to be crossing back to Juarez without that sort of hesitation or worry that something might happen.''. Reveles lived in Juarez until he was 15 and now lives in El Paso. He says the threat of violence is ``still a little bit concerning,'' though that hasn't stopped him in recent weeks from going to Juarez to meet friends for dinner and drinks. ``Things have changed,'' he said. ``To go through what Juarez went through, you see life there again. You see a semblance of what was there before. To really recover and heal wounds, there's a long way to go, but the process has started and that's a step in the right direction.''. CNNMoney's Octavio Blanco contributed to this report.
Tokyo ( CNN ) With the world watching, in his historic address to a joint session of the U.S. Congress, the first ever by a Japanese Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe surprised nobody by missing a great opportunity to dispel worries and tensions he raises with his revisionist views on history. During this 70th year anniversary of the end of World War II, Abe has been disappointing on Japan's wartime history because he has been evasive and ambiguous about embracing responsibility for Japan's wartime actions in Asia where the bitter legacies remain divisive. And this ``Abenesia'' is harmful to Japan's international image, riles China and South Korea and thereby undermines the bilateral security agenda. Washington deliberately set the bar on history very low for Abe because the Obama administration is more focused on the shared perception with Tokyo that contemporary China is a threat requiring a collective response. Strengthening the alliance with Japan and sealing the deal on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trumps past misdeeds. Forty years after the fall of Saigon, and in the wake of Iraq and Afghanistan, America is in no position to lecture other nations about the horrors they inflicted and an inadequate reckoning for such misdeeds. President Barack Obama pulled out all the stops to give Abe a red carpet welcome because he has delivered more on fulfilling Washington's longstanding security demands than all of his predecessors combined. But the newly expanded security role embraced by Japan enjoys little support among Japanese. As a recent Pew Poll indicates, only 23 % are in favor while 68 % are opposed. It is also problematic that Abe's stance on history is a factor in hindering trilateral security cooperation with South Korea, something the U.S. sees as essential. Carefully tailoring his remarks to his audience, Abe hit the right notes in many respects, and even inched forward on history. He did express ``eternal condolences'' about the loss of American lives in World War II, and noted, ``Enemies that had fought each other so fiercely have become friends bonded in spirit.'' That is welcome news, but Japan has been less successful in achieving rapprochement with other enemies, precisely because it has not taken the measure of the shared past. Many nations play fast and loose with their unpleasant histories, but Abe is mounting a significant retreat from Japan's repentant views expressed and embraced since the mid-1990s, and actively promotes a valorizing and exonerating history under the banner of patriotic education. He is putting his personal agenda on history ahead of the national interest and therefore not meeting the test of statesmanship. Of course there is nothing that Abe could say that would satisfy China or South Korea, two nations that suffered longest and most from Japanese depredations from the late 19th century. But that doesn't mean he shouldn't try a bit harder. What Abe said is, ``Post war, we started out on our path bearing in mind feelings of deep remorse over the war. Our actions brought suffering to the peoples in Asian countries. We must not avert our eyes from that. I will uphold the views expressed by the previous prime ministers in this regard.''. Essentially outsourcing ``apology and war responsibility'' to his predecessors gets low marks on the empathy and sincerity scale. It is also troubling that throughout his political career, Abe has worked to undermine and repudiate previous Mea Culpa. Rather than merely ``upholding'' what others have said it might have been better for Abe to prove his critics wrong by clearly expressing an apology. In Japan, there has been a lot of pressure on Abe to explicitly invoke the language of the 1995 Murayama Statement that stands as the most forthright apology and acknowledgment of war responsibility. Even the conservative Yomiuri newspaper urged him to do so. Murayama clearly condemned ``mistaken national policy,'' ``self-righteous nationalism,'' ``colonial rule'' and ``aggression,'' but Abe has spent his entire political career renouncing this so-called ``masochistic'' view of Japan's wartime history. Fatalistically, Abe said, ``History is harsh. What is done can not be undone.'' Well, yes that is self-evident but this should not mean the door is closed on apologies, acts of contrition and atonement and a clear reckoning of the harsh history that still isolates Japan in East Asia. Abe is certainly right that the neighbors are playing the history card and relentlessly hammering Japan on the anvil of history, but they were handed the hammer by Japan. Given Abe's evasive track record about the comfort women system of sexual slavery, a forthright apology or acknowledgment of state involvement was never in the cards. What Abe managed, however, was even weaker than expected : ``Armed conflicts have always made women suffer the most. In our age, we must realize the kind of world where finally women are free from human rights abuses.''. This cavalier ``sh*t happens'' attitude towards the comfort women system undermines Japan's dignity and represents a step backward. In recent remarks Abe says he upholds the 1993 Kono statement, but he has flouted it and over the past year members of his party have been busy controverting this forthright admission of responsibility and coercive recruitment. Moreover, Abe's support for patriotic education and pressures on textbook publishers has effectively erased comfort women from what is taught in junior high schools, contravening what the Kono statement promised. In the only textbook that does mention them, the government insisted on the removal of a former comfort woman's testimony and insertion of a disclaimer regarding what it regards as a lack of evidence. To counter criticism, Abe now refers to Japan's comfort women system in terms of human trafficking, a linguistic ploy to obscure state responsibility for operating this system and make it appear he gets 21st century concerns. Human trafficking, however, highlights the role of private brokers in coercively recruiting these women in line with revisionist attempts to shift responsibility from the Japanese military and government authorities of the day. Revisionists prefer to blame the Korean brokers, but they were acting at the behest of Japanese officials who surely knew of the abuses and ensured that the comfort women could not escape their hell. In his speech Abe also referred to shared values of democracy and freedom. This too is welcome news because over the past year Abe has presided over an orchestrated attack on the Asahi newspaper for its coverage of the comfort women system, packed NHK's management with like-minded reactionaries and pressured critics out of their jobs. Indeed the New York Times ran an article on April 26 implicating Team Abe in the axing of a prominent TV pundit who made the mistake of criticizing Abe. The foreign press has also exposed Japanese government harassment targeting their reporting, especially regarding the whitewashing of history, and attempts to smear the integrity of those who wouldn't go along. In addition, journalists were told not to interview certain Abe critics. Journalists acknowledge this is what government spin doctors normally do and have done in Japan for some time, but under Abe the rules of engagement appear to be nastier. Abe got lots of applause from U.S. politicians who seemed to enjoy his reference to an ``alliance of hope.'' That's not exactly how Okinawans feel about the disproportionate base-hosting burden they bear. Some 75 % of U.S. bases are concentrated in Okinawa and U.S. bases cover nearly 20 % of the land. In a series of elections and in opinion polls, Okinawans have voiced their opposition to this situation. In November 2014 they elected a governor who opposes the building of a new airbase for the U.S. in the pristine waters of Oura Bay in northern Okinawa, kicking the once popular incumbent out of office because he gave the green light for this project. Officials on both sides of the Pacific have reiterated support for proceeding with the new base as part of a plan to reduce the U.S. military footprint in Okinawa, but Okinawans remain unconvinced and find that the democratic expression of their opposition is resolutely ignored. Shared values ?
( CNN ) An unmanned Russian spacecraft originally bound for the International Space Station will re-enter the Earth's atmosphere after flight controllers lost contact with it, American astronaut Scott Kelly said Wednesday. The spacecraft that lost contact with flight controllers will re-enter the Earth's atmosphere in about a week, Roscosmos, the Russian Federal Space Agency, said Wednesday. ``Roscosmos ( the Russian Federal Space Agency ) announced that the Progress will not be docking and will re-enter the Earth's atmosphere,'' Kelly said from the space station. The Progress resupply vehicle will come off its orbit and will begin its combustion in the atmosphere between May 5 and May 7, according to Roscosmos. The Progress vehicle does not present any danger to the International Space Station due to a significant difference in orbit, Roscosmos added. The Russia space agency said it is working on its next supply flight to the ISS and expects to launch a new Progress ship in the third quarter of this year. Russia lost contact with ISS Progress 59 during a resupply mission to the International Space Station. The ship is now spinning out of control, NASA said. Even if Russia hadn't lost contact with the craft, the original plan was for Progress to burn up re-entering Earth's atmosphere -- albeit with garbage rather than a full load of equipment for the space station. According to NASA information on the Progress resupply vehicle, ``After the cargo is removed and before the Progress undocks, the crew refills it with trash, unneeded equipment and wastewater, which will burn up with the spacecraft when it re-enters the Earth's atmosphere.''. The cargo spacecraft launched successfully early Tuesday from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. But after it separated from the Soyuz booster rocket's third stage, Russian flight controllers were unable to confirm the health of all the spacecraft's systems, including the deployment of navigational antennae, NASA said. ``The spacecraft made another pass over Russian ground stations and continued to experience telemetry problems regarding the deployment of navigational antennas and the pressurization of the manifolds in the propulsion system,'' the American space agency said in an update. A planned rendezvous with the ISS six hours later was initially postponed to Thursday but has now been canceled, NASA said in its latest update. ``Docking has been called off for the Progress 59 spacecraft,'' it said. ``Russian flight controllers are continuing to assess the vehicle and what the plan going forward will be. Additional information will be provided as it becomes available.''. Few details have been forthcoming so far from Roscosmos. According to NASA, the cargo ship is carrying more than 3 tons of food, fuel, oxygen, spare parts and scientific experiment hardware for the space station. But the hitch will not put the six ISS crew members at risk, NASA said. ``The spacecraft was not carrying any supplies critical for the United States Operating Segment ( USOS ) of the station,'' a statement said. ``Both the Russian and USOS segments of the station continue to operate normally and are adequately supplied well beyond the next planned resupply flight.''. That next flight, which will be the seventh SpaceX commercial resupply services mission to the space station, is not scheduled to take off before June 19, NASA said. Meanwhile, Russian flight controllers continue their efforts to make contact with Progress 59 as it passes over Russian ground stations. NASA said Tuesday that Russian flight controllers had ``confirmed that the vehicle had entered into a slow spin and have issued commands to attempt to control it.''. According to Russian state news agency Tass, six attempts to make contact were to be made Wednesday. The U.S. supplies on board the spacecraft include spare parts for the station's environmental control and life support system, backup spacewalk hardware and crew clothing, ``all of which are replaceable,'' NASA said. U.S. astronaut Terry Virts, from Maryland, is the current space station commander. CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Suzanne Presto and Amanda Barnett contributed to this report.
Stornaway, Scotland ( CNN ) Huge military exercises are underway off and around Britain's coast, but NATO insists they are not a deliberate response to the Russian military's increasingly brazen behavior. The British-led war games are code named Joint Warrior and the numbers are all big : 13,000 personnel from 14 countries operating more than 50 ships and submarines as well as 70 aircraft. NATO says the planning started long before Russia began behaving as an adversary. For more than a year NATO has been condemning Russia's actions in Ukraine as well as its frequent, large scale, snap military drills and those long-range Bear bombers repeatedly flying very close to NATO airspace. So, if Joint Warrior is not a deliberate response, it's certainly a timely one. CNN was invited to spend a day aboard one of the vessels taking part -- the U.S. Navy's guided missile cruiser USS Vicksburg. It's the current flag ship of a standing NATO maritime group. Commanding officer Rear Adm. Brad Williamson says Russia's behavior is an added motivation to do well in these exercises. ``Anytime you have a security situation that reminds us it's not just a game we're doing out here, that there are real world implications to our ability to provide security to alliance members, I think that focuses our minds on what we're doing,'' Williamson says. Other personnel on the Vicksburg tell us competition between different nations and even individual ships and subs is also a big motivator. The details of these war games are top secret. But they're broken into two parts : The set training exercises that involve vessels or groups completing specific jobs and what they call ``free play''. That's where everyone's divided into two teams with different orders and motivations manipulated by the game masters. Tensions rise and it's likely pretend war follows. Easy to see how things get competitive. Russia has taken an interest. It used its right under what's known as the Vienna document to send its own inspectors. NATO says they only stayed a few days and didn't see anything sensitive.
Jerusalem ( CNN ) The Israeli military conducted airstrikes Sunday night in the area between Israel and Syria, targeting a group of militants allegedly trying to plant a bomb on the Israeli border. The Israel Defense Forces said the airstrikes were carried out in the occupied Golan Heights against four militants who crossed into the area from Syria. ``A group of armed terrorists approached the border with an explosive device, which was intended to be detonated against IDF forces,'' the Israeli military said. The airstrikes prevented the bombing, the military said. Three of the alleged attackers were killed, Israeli media reported, citing IDF sources. It was not immediately known to what militant group the men belonged. The Golan is regarded internationally as occupied territory despite Israeli governmental control. It is home to 41,000 residents, including Jews, Druze and Alawites. Israel seized the territory from Syria during the 1967 Israel-Arab war, and it was eventually annexed.
( CNN ) Combining healthy eating with moral support, Jean Nidetch became a heavyweight in the weight-loss industry. The founder of Weight Watchers died Wednesday at her home in Florida. She was 91. What would become Weight Watchers started as a group of friends meeting in her Queens, New York, living room in 1961. Nidetch described herself as an ``overweight housewife obsessed with cookies.''. After countless fad diets, Nidetch figured that accountability was the key to keeping the weight off. At the time, she was 38 years old and weighed more than 200 pounds. Her guiding philosophy : ``It's choice -- not chance -- that determines your destiny.''. Through the program of regular weigh-ins, peer support and accountability, not only did Nidetch lose 72 pounds, but she inspired millions more to shed pounds too. She officially launched Weight Watchers in 1963 and took the company public five years later. ``Jean was an inspiration and an innovator who leaves behind a legacy and program that has positively impacted the health and well-being of millions of people around the world,'' said Jim Chambers, president and CEO Weight Watchers International. ``It is our honor and responsibility to carry on her legacy to help more people to transform their lives.''
( CNN ) You might call her a watchdog, because this Boston area Doberman really has a thing for timepieces. She recently ate three. Last Thursday, Jeff Courcelle came home from work to find 5-year-old Mocha -- a pure bred fawn-colored Doberman pincher -- hovering over a pile of screws, metal pieces, three watch heads and some chewed leather straps. ``My husband, who's the most calm person that I know, called me up and said, `I'm not quite sure if I should panic,''' said Courcelle's wife, Michele Parkinson. The 80-pound Doberman, whom her owners describe as ``more goofy than scary,'' had pulled down a basket of wrist wear from a shelf in their bedroom and eaten nearly all the contents. Parkinson knew that Mocha wouldn't be able to pass all that leather on her own. The couple took her to the MSPCA's Angell Animal Medical Center, a 24-hour emergency and specialty hospital, where a veterinarian performed a 3-hour endoscopy to explore the contents of her belly. Mocha was a repeat offender : Just last summer, she got very sick and had to have emergency stomach surgery after a piece of plastic from an orange juice container perforated her intestine. She had 28 staples down her belly and 10 inches of intestine removed, Parkinson said. Fortunately this time, the jewelry remains were still in Mocha's belly and had not made their way into the digestive tract. The X-ray, however, was disturbing. Parkinson and her husband were just expecting to see a couple metal pieces. ``It just looked like a Christmas tree and I almost threw up,'' Parkinson said. The veterinarian removed ``about a pound of leather straps and metal pieces and detritus'' during the endoscopy, and let nature take its course for the remaining pieces, MSPCA spokesman Rob Halpin said. As of Friday, Mocha was no worse for wear. The hospital sees dozens of cases each week of dogs ingesting foreign objects, and is trained to look for the symptoms of blockages -- typically lethargy, not eating and vomiting, Halpin said. They once saw a golden retriever who had stopped eating and found 43 pacifiers in her belly. ( Apparently she was taking them from babies at the park. ) And there was the 100-pound bull mastiff who ate his owner's brie that was set out for a party -- along with the cheese knife. The night Mocha stayed in the hospital, a nervous Parkinson stayed awake reading stories about dogs ingesting watches and other objects. She found one article about a Newfoundland whose owner knew something was awry only when he heard an alarm go off from his dog's belly. ``We've taken every imaginable thing that could fit down the gullet of a dog out with surgery,'' Halpin said. ``There's some evolutionary traits that some dogs have that lead them to eat first and think later.. and some of them are so food motivated that anything with a scent could be associated with food, and they go for it.''. Mocha likes to suck on fleece blankets and has been known to eat rubber ear buds or hair elastics, but nothing like a pile of jewelry, Parkinson said. Her breeder wondered if the dog was acting out of anxiety. That day, Parkinson had left Mocha in a different apartment the couple owns that the dog wasn't as used to. The breeder told Parkinson that Dobermans are particularly known to get anxious and do these sort of things. ``She had a dog that actually consumed her whole dog bed,'' Parkinson said. From now on, Parkinson said she will put Mocha in a crate if the dog will be staying somewhere new. Follow-up X-rays Monday on Mocha showed a few pieces of metal left, ``but they were moving along'' and the vet expected her to pass them naturally. Parkinson said Friday Mocha was ``her playful, energetic, curious Doberman self.''. But now that she thinks of it, the timing of this whole incident is a little suspicious. ``My husband was all excited about the new Apple watch, but couldn't justify a reason to purchase it since he owned three watches,'' she said. ``I am convinced that he and Mocha joined forces here to destroy all of his current watches in order to make room for Apple's new watch.''
( CNN ) As the model for Norman Rockwell's ``Rosie the Riveter,'' Mary Doyle Keefe became the symbol of American women working on the home front during World War II. The 92-year-old died this week at her home in Simsbury, Connecticut. As a 19-year-old telephone operator, Keefe posed for the famous painting that would become the cover of the Saturday Evening Post on May 29, 1943. Although she was petite, Keefe was transformed into the iconic -- and burly -- embodiment of the character by Rockwell. ``Other than the red hair and my face, Norman Rockwell embellished Rosie's body,'' Keefe said in a 2012 interview with the Hartford Courant. ``I was much smaller than that and did not know how he was going to make me look like that until I saw the finished painting.''. People we've lost in 2015. Keefe pocketed $ 10 for the two mornings of modeling work she did in Arlington, Vermont. Rockwell lived in neighboring West Arlington at the time. ``Rosie the Riveter'' is often confused with another popular image from the same era. The poster shows a woman flexing her arm under the slogan ``We Can Do It.'' It was part of a nationwide campaign to sell war bonds, but is not the same character. Still, many folks on social media paid tribute to Keefe using the image. Both show the key role women played in the war effort.
Atlanta ( CNN ) ``Do you use toilet paper ?''. That's the question 26-year-old Anamarie Shreeves receives most often. It's not exactly a typical question, but Shreeves, who lives in Atlanta and is the site manager for the nonprofit Keep Atlanta Beautiful, lives what some may consider an atypical lifestyle : She creates almost no waste. The list of things she doesn't use would send shivers up a consumer marketer's spine : No plastic packaging, no new clothing, no metal cans, no cars ( and in turn, no gas ). The small amount of waste Shreeves does create goes straight into a 32-ounce mason jar that sits three-quarters full right next to her kitchen sink. Its contents include produce stickers, some paper tea bag wrappers and a long, twisted piece of cotton that went around her toes for a recent pedicure. This is all the waste she has collected in nearly half a year. That's right, EVERYTHING. Six month's worth of garbage for Shreeves is similar to what the average person generates in half a day. A Maryland native, Shreeves considered herself an ``Earth advocate'' from a fairly young age. Of her four brothers and sisters, she says she was always the one wading in the creek that passed by her backyard, climbing trees and pushing her family to stop being so wasteful. ``I got them their first recycling bin,'' she said. Shreeves began her journey into zero-waste living two years ago. She had just quit her job working in television and decided to move to Ecuador for a few months. Before she left she resolved to get rid of as much of her stuff as possible. She had read a blog post by a woman who lives a zero waste life in New York called the No Trash Project, and she was inspired. ``The average person throws away a ton of trash a year,'' Shreeves said. ``One single person. For her to go to zero like that, I was just amazed.''. Upon her return from Ecuador, Shreeves decided to take the lifestyle she started before she left to the next level. In April of last year, she officially began to live zero waste. Simplifying her existence wasn't easy. She had to rid herself of old habits. In the first week, she filled up half the mason jar with paper towels after grabbing them to dry her hands, just out of habit. It also took a while to feel comfortable with the funny stares she would get after politely asking food vendors to put her sandwiches and salads into her metal tin instead of paper and plastic containers. But she stayed strong and a year later she is at the point where she composts, makes her own shampoo, toothpaste and even uses reusable feminine products. And yes, she does use toilet paper -- the kind that's quickly biodegradable. The key to making it all work is an enormous amount of preparation. Shreeves packs her bags every day with a cup to drink out of, a metal tin and a reusable fork and knife, a cloth napkin and a couple canvas bags. This allows her to avoid the waste that comes so often with prepared foods. She has also had to stop going to some of her favorite restaurants and coffee shops because they won't provide reusable kitchenware. Shreeves acknowledges that with this lifestyle come certain restrictions ; she has learned to make most of her food from scratch to avoid packaging. She also has to put more time into getting places by bike or public transportation. But without a doubt, the rewards for her outweigh the inconveniences. ``The quality of life that I experience as a zero waster far exceeds my life before. It's made me appreciate the things that I do have. I wouldn't want to be in another space,'' she said. To learn more about cutting down on waste, visit Shreeves' blog, fortnegrita.com.
( CNN ) Are you smarter than a really smart Singapore high school student ?. See if you can figure out Cheryl's birthday, the Singapore logic problem that's got the Internet twisted into knots. Some are even saying it's the math equivalent of the ``What color is the dress'' debate. The puzzling problem went viral after Singapore television host Kenneth Kong posted it to Facebook. Cheryl's birthday challenge was meant to test the better high-school students competing in the Singapore and Asian Schools Math Olympiad, held April 8. Here it is : Cheryl has a birthday, and she doesn't want to share it right away. ( Otherwise, we have no challenge to solve. ) So she gives her friends Albert and Bernard a list of 10 possible birthday dates : May 15, May 16, May 19, June 17, June 18, July 14, July 16, August 14, August 15 or August 17. A brief conversation between Albert and Bernard -- who we assume are not lying for the sake of this problem -- gives the reader enough clues to eliminate nine of the 10 dates and discover Cheryl's birthday. That's assuming you want to celebrate with Cheryl after she's put you through all that trouble. See our video below for the answer from Georgia Tech Mathematician Matt Baker. The New York Times and the Washington Post have also posted solutions to the problem, along with explanations. Of course, the Internet has offered other solutions.
( CNN ) The night before her daughter's first triathlon, Kate Parker could tell the child was nervous. Ella and her younger sister, Alice, are athletic, loud, curious, wild-haired kids. They grew up watching their mother compete in races and Ella had asked to sign up for her own. Still, as they laid out everything she'd need the next day, Parker, a photographer, could tell she was afraid. ``Why don't we get a picture ?'' Parker asked Ella, now 9. ``Show me your strongest face, show me your bravest face, even if you don't feel that way right now.''. As she pulled the image up on her screen, she got chills from her daughter's direct stare. She looked, Parker said, like ``a little badass.''. ``You're going to be totally fine,'' Parker showed her. ``Look at how tough you are.''. The next day, Ella participated in her race, and loved it. Looking back, ``I wanted her to remember that she was scared and she went through with it, sort of as a memento of her conquering a fear,'' said Parker, who lives near Atlanta. ``As a mom, I really wanted to get a good picture of it, too.''. The photo is one of Parker's favorites from her series, ``Strong is the New Pretty.'' It covers the last two years, but evolved from Parker's early days behind a camera, when she shot daily images of her girls to expand her knowledge of lighting and composition. It seemed that most images of little girls showcased perfectly placed hair bows, forced smiles and Photoshop-smooth skin. Hers didn't. ``I didn't want to shoot pictures like that. I didn't want girls to think they had to look like that,'' said Parker, whose daughters are now 6 and 9. ``Whoever they were, however they were, was worthy of an image. Whatever they were was good enough.''. So, she shot her girls and their friends as they were -- freckled, muddy, screaming, laughing, jumping in the pool, collecting worms in the creek, barreling into the wilderness of early adolescence on skateboards and bicycles. ``I want to capture them before they lose that sense of `I'm so awesome.' I wanted them to keep that as long as they could,'' Parker said. ``I started to shoot with that in mind, but it was already there.''. The girls pose for an occasional portrait, but most are kid-inspired moments, shaped by childish wonderment and energy. As parents, Parker and her husband encourage their girls to play outside, make new friends and try new things without worrying about grass-stained knees and knots in their hair, Parker said. Now, the girls have the confidence and curiosity to do it on their own. ``They're just being themselves, and I'm just recording it,'' Parker said. Responses to the images are mostly positive, Parker said, but there's the occasional complaint that she's showing just one type of girl. It's true, Parker said : They're the ones she's raising, the only ones whose adventures she can document 24/7. She hopes the project inspires parents to find their own creative ways to capture their children's lives. More important, she wants kids to see they can be strong in whatever they are and whatever they hope to be. Parker's own kids still surprise her. ``Alice is a beautiful singer. When I hear her sing, it makes me cry,'' Parker said. ``Ella has this amazing, kind heart that cares more about the experience than the win. It's something that I did not teach her. ``Whatever it is, it's OK.''
Washington ( CNN ) Chief Justice John Roberts is back in the spotlight. Roberts -- who shocked conservatives nearly three years ago by providing a pivotal vote to uphold Obamacare -- once again faces a judicial crossroads in a historic case. The U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral arguments Tuesday in a case that could decide whether gay and lesbian couples nationwide have the constitutional right to marry. The question at the core of Obergefell v. Hodges is one of the most consequential debates of the early 21st century, and one that is already helping to shape the 2016 presidential race. Appeals courts nationwide have moved decisively toward supporting same-sex marriage, but a split at the appellate level helped propel the issue to the nation's highest court, led by Roberts. Appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush, Roberts has a solid conservative record and would seem an unlikely vote to support a constitutional right to same-sex marriage. He dissented in United States v. Windsor, a landmark case in which a narrowly divided court struck down a key provision of the Defense of Marriage Act, which denied federal benefits to lawfully married same-sex couples. And he's expressed sympathy with legal arguments that would allow same-sex marriage bans. Yet both sides see the case as a legacy-making moment for the 60-year-old chief justice, and advocates for same-sex couples hold out hope that he will emerge as their ally. They will be scrutinizing his words and actions Tuesday for clues about how he'll vote -- and whether he will upset some conservatives once again. ``If the Windsor majority votes in favor of marriage equality, the ruling will be one of the most momentous decisions of the Roberts court,'' said Judith E. Schaeffer of the Constitutional Accountability Center, which is advocating for same-sex marriage. ``Will John Roberts want to be remembered as having dissented from such a historic decision ?''. For some conservatives, a vote in favor of same-sex marriage in the case would be a huge disappointment. It would be akin to the type of betrayal they felt when Justice David Souter, who was nominated to the bench by George H.W. Bush and who retired in 2009, consistently voted with the liberals or when Justice Anthony Kennedy, a Ronald Reagan appointee, disappointed them on earlier gay rights cases as well as abortion and the death penalty. Or when Roberts infuriated conservative allies by providing the crucial fifth vote to uphold Obamacare on the grounds that the law is a constitutional use of the government's taxing authority. The hope in conservative circles is that Roberts will see his legacy as ensuring that the issue of same-sex marriage gets decided by the people, not the courts. ``The chief surely knows that his job is to be on the right side of the Constitution,'' said Edward Whelan, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center. ``Blatherings about the `wrong side of history' are an appeal to intellectual cowardice.''. Those hoping that he will vote to uphold the state bans see a strong signal in the Windsor case. In his majority opinion, Kennedy said the ``principal purpose'' of the Defense of Marriage Act was to ``impose inequality.''. Roberts disagreed. He wrote separately to say he thought Congress acted constitutionally when it passed the law in 1996 in an attempt to provide ``uniformity and stability'' at a time when every state defined marriage as between a man and a woman. Roberts picked up on Kennedy's language that emphasized the states' power to define the marital relationship and said that power will someday ``come into play on the other side of the board in future cases about the constitutionality of state marriage definitions.''. David Cruz of the University of Southern California Gould School of Law said that Roberts could use that reasoning to vote in favor of state bans in the Obergefell case. ``Roberts is suggesting that concerns about the powers of states will support state laws excluding same-sex couples from marriage,'' Cruz said. Indeed, the lower court that upheld the marriage bans in Michigan, Tennessee, Ohio and Kentucky in the Obergefell case relied heavily on the argument that states have a right to define marriage. Another clue to Roberts' thinking in the Windsor dissent is that he took particular issue with any notion that the Defense of Marriage Act was passed out of a desire to harm -- noting it had the support of majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate as well as President Bill Clinton, who signed it into law. ``I would not tar the political branches with the brush of bigotry,'' Roberts wrote. The comments suggest he would reject an argument in the Obergefell case that rested on the idea that same-sex marriage bans reflected animus against gay people. But backers of same-sex marriage are reading some tea leaves of their own. Schaeffer points out that Roberts didn't join the parts of the dissents penned by Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito, which clearly stated a belief that state bans on same-sex marriage don't violate the Constitution. ``Roberts didn't join them in expressing those views,'' Schaeffer said. At the time, Roberts simply wrote that the court ``does not have before it, and the logic of its opinion does not decide'' whether states can ban same-sex marriage. Schaeffer said the chief justice could have simply chosen to remain silent on an issue that wasn't before the court. ``But I think one reasonable explanation is that Roberts was preserving a clean slate for himself on the ultimate issue of marriage equality,'' she said. The Defense of Marriage Act decision overshadowed another 2013 case -- Hollingsworth v. Perry -- that could have determined whether states could ban same-sex marriage. The case concerned a challenge to California's Proposition 8, a state constitutional amendment that barred same-sex couples from marriage. But Roberts, writing for the majority, dismissed the case, holding that the challengers did not have the legal standing to bring it to the court. The ruling left in place a lower court decision that had invalidated Proposition 8 and thus paved the way for same-sex marriage in California. Roberts' lesbian cousin, who lives in California, sat in the courtroom during arguments in the Prop 8 case. Few people predicted that the issue would return so quickly to the Supreme Court, but waves of lower court judges -- sometimes citing Windsor -- struck down the state bans. On the first day of the term last fall, the court was presented with seven different petitions on the issue. Conventional wisdom was that the justices would garner the four necessary votes and grant one of the cases. But conventional wisdom was completely wrong. Without comment, the court declined to take up any of the cases, clearing the way for thousands of additional same-sex marriages. The court's vote count in such decisions is kept a secret and may never be known. But some speculate on one possible scenario : Roberts chose not to provide the fourth vote to the conservatives who dissented in Windsor. Then again, even if the speculation were true, it doesn't reveal much about Roberts' thinking. There's a big difference between voting not to take up a case, which expresses no opinions on the merits, and issuing an opinion on the merits. And even when Roberts' actions -- such as effectively allowing same-sex marriage to proceed in California -- seem to suggest a willingness to consider such unions nationwide, his comments along the way make it much harder to gain insight into his ultimate thinking. ``When the institution of marriage developed historically, people didn't get around and say, `Let's have this institution, but let's keep out homosexuals,''' Roberts said during the Proposition 8 oral arguments. ``The institution developed to serve purposes that, by their nature, didn't include homosexual couples.''
( CNN ) In a tragic echo of the catastrophic events in Haiti in 2010, a powerful earthquake struck one of the poorest nations on Earth today. The latest estimates from seismologists put the magnitude at 7.9, which would actually makes it about 40 % larger than the 7.8 currently being reported. That's less than half the size of the previous major event nearby in 1934, which killed around 10,000 people. Unfortunately, it is quite possible the number of dead in Kathmandu could rise to match it. We knew this disaster was coming eventually. Geophysicists have long monitored how fast the Earth's plates are moving, and we know that the entire subcontinent of India is being driven slowly but surely underneath Nepal and Tibet at a speed of around 1.8 inches per year. It's the reason Everest exists. Latest updates on Nepal earthquake. Over millions of years, the squeezing has crushed the Himalayas like a concertina, raising mountains to heights of several miles and triggering earthquakes on a regular basis from Pakistan to Burma. Saturday's quake was neither unusual nor unexpected, although it was larger than most. In the 81 years since the 1934 Bihar earthquake, the land mass of India has been pushed about 12 feet into Nepal. Think of all that movement getting stored in a giant spring lying under Nepal. The spring is stuck on a broad, rough surface which we call a fault plane ( a fault line is what we see when it emerges from the ground ). Fallen : Nepal's historic landmarks. Sometimes, energy stored in the spring gets big enough to slip catastrophically, releasing all that pent-up strain and generating shaking strong enough to destroy buildings and kill people over a huge area. The bigger the area that slips, and the larger the pent-up energy, the greater the damage. Saturday's slip took place over an area about 1,000 to 2,000 square miles over a zone spanning the cities of Kathmandu and Pokhara in one direction, and almost the entire Himalaya mountain width in the other. A part of India slid about one to 10 feet northwards and underneath Nepal in a matter of seconds. We have this kind of detailed data thanks to major advances in seismology over recent years. Using measurements of shaking recorded on seismometers scattered across the world and sent in near or real time to agencies like the U.S. Geological Survey and to universities such as Columbia, we can infer the location and magnitude of a big earthquake very quickly. Avalanches hamper Everest rescue efforts. Not just that : we can now estimate the pattern and speed of rapid sliding across its fault surface. What used to take months of careful academic study now takes minutes of computation. In Haiti in 2010, although the earthquake was more than 20 times weaker than Saturday's, well over 100,000 people are thought to have been killed around Port-au-Prince by the shaking and its after-effects. Yet despite some differences, the Nepal and Haiti earthquakes also share similarities -- both geological events were known to be approaching, and both struck areas afflicted by widespread poverty, rapid increases in population in urban areas, uncoordinated changes in building infrastructure and lack of adherence to improved building codes. About 1.45 million people live in Kathmandu, the majority in poorly constructed homes not designed to withstand the kind of shaking seen on Saturday. Nepal has a per capita income of around $ 1,350, only a notch above that of Haiti, and among the lowest in the world. Meeting building codes in new construction, or taking on expensive retrofitting, is way beyond the means of most. To make matters worse, the valley itself appears to focus the destructive shaking of earthquake waves. Studies have long predicted that the Kathmandu area was due a magnitude-8 earthquake, or higher -- one study predicted between 21,000 and 42,000 fatalities if a magnitude-8.1 earthquake had struck the area. ( Fortunately, Saturday's shaking was half that intensity ). Still, this catastrophe comes at a delicate time for Nepal as it emerges from a long-running civil war and its economy has been improving steadily. We have to hope that recovery from both can somehow take place despite the enormous challenges ahead.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Ben Powers, who played Thelma's ( BernNadette Stanis ) husband Keith Anderson on the final season of the classic CBS sitcom ``Good Times,'' has died. He was 64. Powers died April 6 in New Bedford, Mass., his family announced. No cause of death was revealed. Powers joined the cast of ``Good Times'' for its sixth and final season from 1978 to 1979 season, playing Keith, a professional football player. His character and Thelma wed in the third episode of that season, but he injures his leg while walking out of the church, straining their relationship. Powers also had a regular role as ``Moochie'' on the CBS detective drama show, Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer, from 1984 to 1985. Powers had a small part in ``Cheech & Chong's Next Movie'' ( 1980 ). He was back with the comedy pair in ``Things Are Tough All Over'' ( 1982 ). He also appeared in ``The Man Who Loved Women'' ( 1983 ) starring Burt Reynolds. He also guest-starred on shows such as ``Gim me a Break,'' ``Flamingo Road,'' ``The Greatest American Hero'' and ``Laverne & Shirley.''. Born in Brooklyn and raised in Providence, R.I., by his grandparents, Alton ``Ben'' Powers attended the Rhode Island School of Design for painting and sketching before focusing on acting. He performed stand-up comedy routines in Providence, incorporating impressions and songs into his act, where he was discovered by a Hollywood agent. Gigs at the Playboy clubs in Los Angeles, New York and Boston led to a job in 1977 on the revived version of ``Laugh-In.''. Survivors include his mother and his sisters Yvonne and Maya. People we've lost in 2015. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Atop the Amazon bestselling books list this month sat an unexpected title : ``Secret Garden.'' It wasn't Frances Hodgson Burnett's 1911 novel about a sour little girl's magical place, making a book club comeback. It was a similarly named coloring book that adults were buying, for themselves, and it wasn't the only one in the top 10. Johanna Basford's ``Secret Garden : An Inky Treasure Hunt & Coloring Book'' ( now at No. 3 on Amazon ) along with her second effort, ``Enchanted Forest : An Inky Quest & Coloring Book'' ( No. 6 ) ; ``Balance ( Angie's Extreme Stress Menders Volume 1 )'' by Angie Grace ( No. 9 ) ; and ``The Mindfulness Colouring Book : Anti-stress Art Therapy for Busy People'' by Emma Farrarons ( No. 8 on Amazon UK ) are selling at a rapid clip. Though they can be used by kids, these and other new coloring book titles are being marketed to stressed-out, work-addled adults, who want to benefit from the quiet zen that a coloring session can bring. ``Adult coloring is absolutely a growing trend and consumers are really taking to the idea,'' Farrarons' U.S. publisher, Matthew Lore of The Experiment publishing group, wrote in an email. ``Not only is it calming and good for your health, it's just fun ! The demand is increasing exponentially as the word spreads.''. While Farrarons and Basford are based in the UK, the concept is taking off in the U.S. too, with the publication of titles like Virginia-based art therapist Lacy Mucklow and illustrator Angela Porter's ``Color Me Calm'' and ``Color Me Happy,'' created for the minds and motor skills of Mom and Dad, not the kids. The trend doesn't seem to be letting up. Basford is working on a third title, Farrarons has been commissioned for a second book, and Mucklow and Porter will release ``Color Me Stress-Free'' in September. Adults have long used crafts to unwind, but why coloring books ? Why now ? It may have something to do with online access -- and, funnily enough, the desire to unplug. Ordering a coloring book that suits adult tastes online is easier than walking into a bookstore where the only options have Barbie or Thomas the Tank Engine themes. Plus, everyone's favorite online crafting hub, Pinterest, is a treasure trove of adult coloring pages, with themes ranging from nature and animals to classic paintings. Meanwhile, like children, adults need a break from screen time -- and many are rediscovering the analog pleasures of coloring inside the lines. ``I'm a grown-up, but I still love coloring books,'' novelist Matt Cain proclaimed in a piece for The Guardian. ``If I switch off the phone, computer and TV and concentrate solely on choosing the right shade of blue, avoiding going over the lines and slowly filling up my page with colour, all my other concerns, I've discovered, fade to nothing,'' Cain wrote. The therapeutic benefits of art are nothing new ; it's a concept that practitioners use with patients of all ages. Atlanta-based art therapist Susanne Fincher, who has published several coloring books, said coloring can lift the mood, reduce anxiety and relieve stress. ``Art making is a powerful intervention,'' Fincher wrote in an email. ``Neuroscientific research has shown that through the use of art therapy, the human brain can physically change, grow, and rejuvenate.''. True art therapy, she warned, should be administered only by a qualified professional. Mindfulness and meditative coloring are recurring themes in the growing adult coloring book industry. A search for ``adult coloring books'' on Amazon or Barnes and Noble will yield several books of mandalas, a ritual symbol in Buddhism and Hinduism that represents the universe, waiting to be colored in. ``I sometimes give clients one of my mandala coloring books for homework between sessions with me,'' Fincher wrote. ``Coloring mandalas can empower a client to manage thoughts and feelings on their own with the positive activity of coloring, instead of, for example, overeating or abusing substances.''. The opportunity to craft a mindfulness coloring book for adults was serendipitous for illustrator Farrarons, who had been practicing mindfulness for a few years before getting the offer to create a book. ``In mindfulness, it is encouraged to break patterns in life by introducing variation to avoid the sensation of being on autopilot,'' Farrarons wrote in an email while on holiday in Korea. ``Each page has been caringly designed with this in mind, so that the person coloring can hop at random from one pattern to the next.''. Coloring books like Farrarons' pocket-sized volume bring a bit of calming and spirituality to the masses, but for some adult enthusiasts coloring is just a fun throwback to a simpler time, she added. ``It reminds me of hours spent filling in scenes from a coloring book as a little girl. In the digital age that we are in, surely, it can only be a good thing to pick up a pencil and feel young again.''
( CNN ) Whether quaffing artisanal cocktails at hipster bars or knocking back no-name beers on the couch, more Americans are drinking heavily -- and engaging in episodes of binge-drinking, concludes a major study of alcohol use. Heavy drinking among Americans rose 17.2 percent between 2005 and 2012, largely due to rising rates among women, according to the study by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, published Thursday in the American Journal of Public Health. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines heavy drinking as exceeding an average of one drink per day during the past month for women and two drinks per day for men. Binge drinking is defined as four or more drinks for women and five or more drinks for men on a single occasion at least once during the past month. The increases are driven largely by women's drinking habits as social norms change, researchers found. In Santa Clara County, Calif., for example, women's binge drinking rates rose by nearly 36 percent between 2002 and 2012, compared with 23 percent among men. Nationwide over the course of the decade, the rate of binge drinking among women increased more than seven times the rate among men. Opinion : Why are more women drinking ?. ``It seems like women are trying to catch up to the men in binge drinking,'' said Ali Mokdad, a lead author of the study. ``It's really, really scary.''. The study is the first to track adult drinking patterns at the county level. In 2012, 8 percent of Americans were considered heavy drinkers and 18 percent were binge drinkers. Despite the increases in heavy drinking, the percentage of people who drink any alcohol has remained relatively unchanged over time, researchers found. Madison County, Idaho, reported the lowest rate of binge drinking in 2012, at 6 percent, while Menominee, Wis., had the highest rate, at 36 percent. Hancock County, Tenn., had the fewest heavy drinkers ( 2 percent of residents ) and Esmeralda County, Nev., recorded the most ( 22 percent ). Related : 1 in 5 high school girls binge drink. About 88,600 U.S. deaths were attributed to alcohol in 2010, the researchers note, and the cost of excessive drinking has been estimated at more than $ 220 billion per year. The increase in binge drinking doesn't surprise Terri Fukagawa, clinical director of the New Life Recovery Centers in San Jose, Calif., where 15 of her 24 treatment beds are filled with clients primarily addicted to alcohol. She said she's seen more people seeking treatment for alcoholism in the past four years. Still, she noted, ``there are a lot of people still out there needing treatment, but they won't come in unless they have a consequence like losing a job or -LSB- getting -RSB- a DUI. They think they have control over it.''. Public health experts offer a number of cultural and economic explanations for the increase in excessive drinking. As a result of changed social norms, it's now more acceptable for women to drink the way men traditionally have, said Tom Greenfield, scientific director at the Alcohol Research Group at the Oakland, Calif.-based Public Health Institute. Young people are more likely to binge drink, and affluent people have the money to drink more. So the influx of wealthy professionals in cities like San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland -- many in hard-working, hard-partying tech jobs -- may have helped spur significant spikes in drinking rates in the Bay Area and similar communities, experts said. Taxes on alcohol have not risen along with the Consumer Price Index, so wine, beer and liquor have gotten cheaper over time in real dollars, he said. Alcohol advertising, particularly for hard liquor, has increased in recent years. A Federal Trade Commission study found that companies spent about $ 3.45 billion to advertise alcoholic beverages in 2011. Alcohol control policies, such as limits on when and where alcohol can be sold and how long bars can stay open, have weakened in past decades, Greenfield said. That may partly explain rising consumption nationwide, particularly in some states where ``blue laws'' once prohibited alcohol sales on Sundays or in supermarkets. To conduct the study, researchers analyzed data on about 3.7 million Americans aged 21 and older from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, an ongoing telephone survey of health behaviors conducted by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. Kaiser Health News ( KHN ) is a nonprofit national health policy news service.
( CNN ) A 17-year-old teen who has been living at Connecticut Children's Medical Center since December while being forced to have chemotherapy to treat Hodgkin's lymphoma has completed treatment and left the hospital Monday, according to her attorney, Josh Michtom. Cassandra C., as she is identified in court documents, was ordered into custody of the Connecticut Department of Children and Families by a judge in December. She ran away in an effort to discontinue chemo, claiming she did not want to be treated. Earlier this month, CNN reported that she was in remission, feeling well and her treatment was almost complete. Cassandra was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma in September, and doctors gave her an 85 % chance of survival if treated but said she would die within two years if left untreated. She started the treatment in November but ran away after two days, according to court documents, when she decided she did not want to put the poison of the treatment into her body. That's when a judge ordered her into custody of the state. Attorneys for the teen and her mom have tried to appeal, but they did not succeed. Cassandra remained in the hospital. In the most recent legal maneuvering, a judge denied a request by Cassandra's attorney to allow her return home on grounds that she was no longer at risk for imminent harm. Now that her treatment is complete, the temporary order of custody ends, Michtom told CNN. Previously he said the hospital was ``effectively a jail'' to his client. ``As we do for every patient we care for at Connecticut Children's, we wish her the best for a happy and healthy future,'' Robert Fraleigh, director of corporate communications for Connecticut Children's Medical Center, said in a statement Monday. Joette Katz, commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Children and Families, said in a statement that they are pleased that Cassandra is healthy and has recovered. She credits the doctors at Children's Medical Center and the staff at her department for this happy outcome. Acknowledging that the ordeal has been difficult for Cassandra and her family, Katz said, ``We were responsible to save Cassandra's life under these circumstances, and we are very happy that she is now moving successfully to another phase in her life -- a healthy and happy one.''
( CNN ) People have long underestimated the athleticism necessary for golf. But over the last decade, with fit golfers like Tiger Woods, Adam Scott, and now Jordan Spieth all winning the Masters, the training perspective on golf is shifting. There's a particular emphasis on the functional movement required to execute the perfect swing, which is why yoga is increasingly appealing to golfers. During the Masters, Spieth demonstrated optimal movement in two key areas that enhance swing power and fluid control while decreasing the risk of back and knee injuries : mid-back mobility and internal hip rotation. Equally important, he did it while maintaining a stable low back and integrated core strength as the foundation for expressing his swing mobility. Related : Yoga for triathletes. Remember Tiger Wood's low-back problem earlier this year ? Tiger blamed a lack of glute ( primary buttock muscle ) firing for locking up his back, but attempting to rotate from his low back instead of moving functionally from his mid back or hips likely exacerbated the issue. When golfers have mobility limitations in their mid back or hips, they compensate with their low back and knees, which not only hampers play but often leads to pain and injury. Want the mobility to swing like Spieth and avoid the back and knee issues that commonly plague golfers ? Try these three yoga-based moves I use with my PGA clients to address the key areas of the swing. Trains internal hip rotation ; stabilizes and lengthens lower back muscles ; stretches upper back and shoulders ; encourages ankle mobility. Start in a neutral all-fours position with your hips over your knees and your shoulders above your wrists. Engage your deep core muscles to stabilize your low back. Extend your right leg straight out to the side with your toes pointing forward and the sole of your foot down. Exhale as you sit your hips back toward your heels as far as you can go comfortably without knee, hip or back pain. Inhale as you bring your body weight forward again and internally rotate from your right hip to come up onto your toes ( as pictured ). Be sure the rotation is coming from your hip, not your lower back, knees or ankles. Exhale and return your hips back towards your heels and the sole of your foot to the floor. Repeat the movement in synch with your breathing through five repetitions on each side. Promotes proper mid-back extension ; strengthens shoulder girdle, opens front of shoulders and chest ; lengthens low back. Lie prone ( belly down ) on your forearms with your elbows under your shoulders. Exhale as you press down through your forearms as though you are trying to slide your belly through your arms to create length in your low back. At the same time, move your shoulder blades down toward your waist. This will activate the mid-back muscles essential for thoracic spine extension while inhibiting the muscles of your upper neck and chest that limit mobility. Hold the posture for three long, deep breaths. Rest for a breath or two and repeat for a total of three holds. Promotes thoracic spine rotation and shoulder girdle function ; stabilizes low back ; activates glutes ( primary muscles of the buttocks ) ; encourages ankle mobility, strengthens adductors ( groins ), core and legs. Stand with your feet together ; your big toes should touch but allow space between your heels to avoid externally rotating your hips. Exhale as you sit back into a squat with your hands and forearms together in front of your chest. Inhale as you hold the position, ensuring that your low back doesn't arch, and your glutes and core are activated for support. Exhale as you rotate from your mid back to place your inside elbow on the top or outside of one leg. Keep your hips and low back stable. Avoid separating your knees or letting one drop forward. Inhale as you use your bottom elbow for leverage to reach your top elbow upward while pulling your hands toward the center of your chest. Exhale as you focus on dropping your shoulder blades down your back and rotating from your mid back. You can look up or down -- whatever is comfortable for your neck. Hold the twist for two more breaths. Repeat on the opposite side. As an advanced option, you can hold one of your clubs ( as pictured ), reaching your top hand up the club during the twist to open your shoulder and chest. Adding these yoga-based moves to your workouts will help you develop the mobility for an optimal swing. But it's up to you to add skill to the movement. To that end, there are many golf trainers who focus on body mechanics with skill training. According to its website, the Titleist Performance Institute ( TPI ) educates instructors on ``how a properly functioning body allows a player to swing a golf club in the most efficient way possible.'' So, if you really want to swing like Spieth, you might consider hiring a TPI-certified trainer since the training staff Spieth thanked during his Masters victory speech were all TPI certified.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Roseanne Barr has revealed that she is slowly going blind. In an interview with The Daily Beast, Barr said she suffers from macular degeneration and glaucoma and told the website, ``My vision is closing in now.'' The comedic actress said smoking marijuana is ``good medicine'' for relieving the pressure in her eyes. Tribeca 2015 : 9 Must-see films. ``It's something weird. But there are other weird things. That one's harsh,'cause I read a lot, and then I thought, `Well, I guess I could hire somebody to read for me and read to me.' But I like words and I like looking. You do what you have to do. I just try and enjoy vision as much as possible -- y' know, living it up. My dad had it, too,'' the actress said. Barr also defended her use of pot, saying, ``It's expansive. It opens your mind'' and ``It makes you wonder. It doesn't close that down.''. Roger Ailes : Why Fox News will never hire Jon Stewart. Doctors have not given Barr a definitive timeline on when she can expect to lose all visibility. The actress attended the Tribeca Film Festival in support of her documentary ``Roseanne for President !'' Directed by Eric Weinrib, the film follows Barr in her unsuccessful attempt to become the Green Party's 2012 presidential nominee. The Peace and Freedom Party eventually made Barr its nominee.
( CNN ) Feeling so happy you just can't stand it ? You might want to pop some acetaminophen. A new study has found that acetaminophen, the main ingredient in Tylenol, most forms of Midol and more than 600 other medicines, reduces not only pain but pleasure, as well. The authors of the study, which was published this week in Psychological Science, say that it was already known that acetaminophen blunted psychological pain. But their new research led them to the conclusion that it also blunted joy -- in other words, that it narrowed the range of feelings experienced. ``This means that using Tylenol or similar products might have broader consequences than previously thought,'' said Geoffrey Durso, a doctoral student in social psychology at Ohio State University and the lead author of the study. ``Rather than just being a pain reliever, acetaminophen can be seen as an all-purpose emotion reliever.''. The researchers tested their thesis by showing 82 college students 40 photographs -- some of highly pleasant images, such as children with kittens, and some of highly unpleasant images, such as children who were malnourished. Half of the participants in the study were given ``an acute dose'' of acetaminophen -- 1,000 milligrams -- and the other half were given a placebo with the same appearance. The subjects were then asked to rate the photos according to how unpleasant or pleasant they were. Those who took the acetaminophen rated all the photos less extremely than those who took the placebo. ``In other words, positive photos were not seen as positively under the influence of acetaminophen and negative photos were not seen as negatively,'' the authors reported. The researchers followed up by testing a group of 85 people to see whether this change in judgment applied just to emotions or whether the drug blunted people's evaluation of magnitude in general. This group showed the same blunting of emotional reactions. But acetaminophen did not affect how much blue they saw in each photo. But people who participated in the study did not appear to know they were acting differently, said Baldwin Way, an assistant professor of psychology who was another of the study's authors. ``Most people probably aren't aware of how their emotions may be impacted when they take acetaminophen,'' Way said. Each week, about 23 % of American adults -- or 52 million people -- use a medicine containing acetaminophen, according to the nonprofit Consumer Healthcare Products Association. The authors said it was not known whether other pain relievers, such as ibuprofen and aspirin, have the same effect. But have no fear -- they plan to study that question, as well.
( CNN ) Roseanne Barr revealed earlier this week that she is going blind. In an interview with The Daily Beast, the 62-year-old comic talked about her struggle with macular degeneration and glaucoma -- two eye diseases that get progressively worse over time and can steal vision. Barr's doctors haven't provided a timeline, but her symptoms are worsening : ``My vision is closing in now,'' she said. ``I just try and enjoy vision as much as possible. Y' know, living it up.''. Related : 9 worst eye care mistakes you're making. Macular degeneration is a breakdown of the part of the retina that allows us to see fine details in the center of vision ; while glaucoma damages the nerve that connects the retina to the brain, and is often caused by fluid build-up and pressure in the eyes. ( Barr said in the interview that she helps relieve the pressure by using marijuana, which is known to temporarily lower pressure inside the eye. ). ``It's somewhat unusual that Roseanne Bar has both, but not unheard of,'' explains ophthalmologist Steven A. Shanbom, MD, of Shanbom Eye Specialists in Berkley, Mich. Though there are some controllable risk factors, certain people are genetically predisposed to these diseases, so Barr may simply be prone to both. ``Certainly it's sad. The combination of the two is terrible. Macular degeneration takes away her central vision, and glaucoma is taking away her peripheral vision,'' Dr. Shanbom adds. ( He is not treating Roseanne Barr, and does not know the specifics of her case. ). The risk for both diseases goes up for everyone after age 60, with some people, especially African Americans, at higher risk in their 40s. That's why the American Academy of Opthalmology recommends getting a baseline eye exam when you turn the big 4-0, even if you have perfect vision. In the early stages, you can have either condition, but have no symptoms at all. Things like a family history or high blood pressure, or issues within the eye ( like having a thinner cornea, for example ) might lead your MD to prescribe drops that can reduce your chances of developing glaucoma by about half. Related : 10 natural ways to lower blood pressure. There is no cure for either disease. But like those eyedrops, there are treatments that may delay the progression of early-stage glaucoma ( from other drugs to surgery ), and therapies that might halt further vision loss in advanced cases of macular degeneration ( including an implantable telescope ). The future looks brighter however : An animal study published this month suggests that an injection of stem cells into the eye might slow or even reverse the effects of early-stage macular degeneration. There are also simple things you can start doing right now to ward off these diseases. Here, five ways to protect your peepers. Slip on your shades -- even when it's cloudy. Sun exposure can up the risk for glaucoma and macular degeneration, as well as cataracts ( clouding of the lenses ). Make sure your sunglasses offer 99 % to 100 % UV protection. Sporting a pair that doesn't filter UV light is more dangerous than wearing no shades at all, because the dark lenses cause your pupils to dilate and allow in more harmful rays. Schedule in a regular walk. Studies indicate that aerobic exercise can reduce the eye pressure that leads to glaucoma, and may improve blood flow to the retina and optic nerve. According to the Glaucoma Research Foundation, all you need to do is raise your pulse 20 % to 25 % ( which could mean a brisk walk ) for 20 minutes, a minimum of four times a week. Related : 9 tweaks that make walking workouts more effective. Eat your greens. Spinach, kale, and other leafy greens are packed with lutein and zeaxanthin -- antioxidants that lower your risk of developing macular degeneration ( and cataracts too ), research shows. Another good source : egg yolks. Snack on almonds, citrus, and berries. Almonds are loaded with vitamin E ( a handful provides about half your daily dose ), which slows macular degeneration ; while citrus fruit and berries are filled with vitamin C, which cuts your odds of developing the disease. Avoid cigarette smoke. While smoking is bad news for many parts of your body, you may not have considered eyes to be one of them. However, smoking doubles your risk of macular degeneration. Avoiding cigs can not only protect your lungs and heart, it can protect your peepers too.
( CNN ) Hawaii is poised to become the first state in the nation to prohibit the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to anybody under age 21. The state's legislature on Friday passed a bill raising the minimum legal age -- currently 18 -- to buy tobacco or e-cigarettes. The bill will now go before Gov. David Ige, whose signature would make it law in Hawaii as of January 1, 2016. Forty-six U.S. states permit the sale of tobacco to anyone 18 or older, while Alabama, Alaska, New Jersey and Utah require customers to be at least 19. Dozens of cities and towns, including New York, have already raised the minimum legal age for tobacco purchases to 21. ``This bold step will reduce smoking among young people, save lives and help make the next generation tobacco-free,'' said Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, in a prepared statement. ``Increasing the sale age to 21 will reduce tobacco use among youth and young adults, age groups when nearly all smoking begins and that are heavily targeted by the tobacco industry,'' he said. It was not clear Monday whether Ige would sign the bill, although on Friday he approved legislation banning the the use of e-cigarettes in all locations where smoking is illegal. A spokeswoman for the governor told CNN in an email that he would need some time to review the bill. The legislation comes after a report last month from the Institute of Medicine that said barring people under age 21 from buying cigarettes would have significant public health benefits. Setting the minimum age at 21 nationwide would result in nearly a quarter-million fewer premature deaths and 50,000 fewer deaths from lung cancer among people born between 2000 and 2019, the report estimated. Raise the smoking age ? Report predicts big health benefits if we do. Teenagers, especially those between 15 and 17, are most vulnerable to addiction at a time when their brains are still developing, said the study, which was conducted at the request of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. If the minimum legal age for tobacco use was raised to 21, the prevalence of smokers among today's teens would decline by 12 % when they become adults, the report said. Under the Hawaii bill, anyone caught breaking the law would face a $ 10 fine for the first offense and a $ 50 fine or community service for a second offense. A 2014 survey of Hawaii voters found that 71 % favored raising the legal age to 21.
( CNN ) The number of new HIV infections in a rural Indiana county has grown, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The institute is working with state health leaders to control the ``severe outbreak,'' which has spread among users of a prescription opioid called Opana. The outbreak has been ongoing since mid-December. As of Friday, 142 people have tested positive for HIV, with 136 confirmed cases and six more with preliminary positive test results, all in rural Scott and Jackson counties. This is a huge number of cases for an area that has a population of only a few thousand people. The CDC and state health leaders held a news conference Friday to talk about the new numbers and about the growing threat of the spread of disease from IV drug use, especially in isolated rural areas that have sparse health resources. Scott County, the epicenter of the outbreak, has only one doctor who deals with infectious disease, but the doctor is not an HIV specialist, the State Department of Health said. Since the rampant HIV outbreak was first noticed in mid-December, the state has tried to flood the area with additional resources. Indiana declared a public health emergency in that county in March. Indiana University has sent health volunteers to provide a clinic, open once a week to help treat people and test them for HIV. These workers are also going door to door to try to educate the population about the danger of sharing needles. So far, 33 patients have visited the temporary clinic, which is starting to see patients return to seek treatment. It's no coincidence that many of the cases of the newly infected there are younger people ``who weren't around in the'80s and'90s when HIV was at its peak,'' Dr. Jonathan Mermin said. In the 1980s, doctors were seeing an average of 35,000 new HIV infections among IV drug users, and that figure has been down 90 % nationally, he said. So people aren't as aware about the danger of sharing needles. Mermin is the director of the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention. Education will be key, he emphasized. Indiana Gov. Mike Pence also signed a 30-day executive order that allows for a needle exchange. It was set to expire Friday, but he extended the order another 30 days Tuesday. Needle exchanges have been scientifically shown to reduce new infections. The state is also offering job services to people in the area. Dr. Joan Duwve, the chief medical consultant with the Indiana State Department of Health, spoke at length about how communities all along the Ohio River in her state and in Kentucky and West Virginia have seen a huge problem with prescription drug abuse, particularly in areas where there ``is not a lot to do.''. Many family members, across generations, live in the same house and will use the drugs together as ``a community activity,'' Duwve said. And this has led to more needle sharing, which spreads infection. She said this has been a problem for these areas for at least a decade. Another reason this infection has spread so rapidly is the nature of the drug itself. Opana, as the prescription opioid is known, needs to be injected more than once a day. Duwve said residents have reported injecting it four to 10 times a day to stay under its influence. When people start to feel the drug wear off after about four hours, they begin to feel sick and go into withdrawal. Often they'll turn to an injecting partner in the same house who will share their needle and their drug to give the person relief from these symptoms. The other problem with this drug is that it requires a larger-gauge needle that exposes users to more blood, which increases the risk of infection. Health leaders worry about the spread of HIV and other diseases such as hepatitis C around the country as the number of illegal prescription drug users has grown. There has been a 150 % increase in hepatitis C between 2010 and 2013, the majority of the increase believed to be from injection drug abusers, the CDC said. ``The situation in Indiana should serve as a warning not to let our guard down,'' Mermin said. ``This is a powerful reminder'' that HIV and other infectious diseases ``can gain ground at any time, unless you remain vigilant.''
( CNN ) The latest outbreak of bird flu -- the worst in the U.S. since the 1980s -- is not a likely threat to humans, reports the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But as with any potential threat to human health, they are preparing for the worst just in case. The CDC and the United States Department of Agriculture held a press conference Wednesday to talk about preparations. ``The risk to humans is low, our food supply is safe,'' said Dr. John Clifford, the USDA's Chief Veterinary Officer. ``We know how to address disease when we find it.''. Since mid-December, 16 states have seen bird flu turn up in commercial poultry, backyard chickens, and in flocks of wild and captive wild birds, according to the CDC. That number will likely grow as birds with the disease fly from one state to the next. On Monday, health leaders in Iowa said more than 5 million hens would have to be euthanized after bird flu was detected at a commercial laying facility there. In the United States, some 3.5 million birds had already been euthanized to prevent the spread of the disease, according to the USDA. Iowa has about 60 million laying hens, according to the Iowa Egg Council and is the top egg producer in the country. California and Minnesota, two of the country's top 10 egg producing states have also seen cases. The news is bad for the birds, but not for humans. The CDC considers the likelihood of bird to human transmission of the virus ``low'' according to Dr. Alicia Fry, a medical officer with the CDC national Center for Immunization and Respiratory Disease, Influenza Division, Epidemiology and Prevention Branch. ``That said, human infections have occurred'' with another strain of the virus, found in Africa and in Asia, so the CDC can not rule out the possibility of human infection, Fry said. ``We are cautiously optimistic'' that it won't spread to humans, but ``we are prepared for the possibility,'' she added. They are studying the current virus and creating candidate vaccines which could be used if one were ever needed. The USDA is also working on a potential vaccine for the birds. These are typical routine public health preparedness measures. The CDC said it is also monitoring at least 100 people who have worked with sick birds. None of the workers have gotten sick themselves. Most of the people who have become infected with the other strains of the virus in Asia and Africa have had direct or prolonged contact with infected birds. The virus does not spread through people eating chickens or eggs. Birds that are sick die quickly, according to Clifford. Incubation period is three to five days generally. With turkeys, they go off their water and their feed when they are sick and become lethargic or have a condition called ``torticollis'' or ``stargazing'' he said, and they die shortly after that. Farmers also see a drop in egg production. Commercial growers have taken extra precautions to disinfect vehicle tires and any equipment that comes into contact with the birds. Workers must also disinfect their shoes and hands when they go from building to building to reduce contamination. With popular backyard birds, the USDA suggests people try and protect their animals from coming into contact with wild water fowl that may carry the virus. The CDC said, as with any evolving public health situation, they will continue to provide updated information as it becomes available. The good news is the virus doesn't like warm weather or strong sunlight, according to the USDA. So the cases should go down over the summer, but they are going to monitor the situation knowing that it could come back in the Fall.
( CNN ) When the earthquake hit, many of Nepal's most renowned pagodas in and around Kathmandu crumbled into rubble-covered stumps. Others were smothered under splintered hand-carved wooden beams or multi-level rooftops. But the Kathmandu Valley's other pagodas, stupas and shrines -- also built mostly of red brick hundreds of years ago -- suffered surprisingly little damage and remained standing next to structures which disappeared. The worst architectural losses have included the majestic Shiva temple pagoda and its twin, the Narayan temple pagoda, which dominated Kathmandu's main Durbar Square. From the late 1960s onwards, Western hippy backpackers who traveled the legendary overland route to Kathmandu would climb the Shiva pagoda's wide, nine-step plinth, sit in the shade under the triple-layered roofs, smoke hashish and enjoy the lofty view. But now the two pagodas have been obliterated and the scene comprises pathetic piles of rubble, a bulldozer shoveling a path for vehicles, shocked and miserable witnesses and a sense of irreplaceable visual and spiritual loss -- unless the structures are eventually rebuilt. The Shiva temple pagoda may have been hundreds of years old, but before its destruction impoverished rickshaw drivers, coolies and others would publicly urinate into the gutter surrounding it while waiting for passengers or heavy loads to transport. The slightly shorter, triple-roofed Narayan pagoda allowed vegetable sellers to display their foodstuff on the temple's broad, five-level base. Both pagodas also served as public platforms. Jostling crowds of Nepalis and foreigners used to gather there because the plinths' height above street level allowed excellent views of major Hindu processions and other events. Those two landmarks fronted the enclosed dwelling place of Nepal's Hindu virgin goddess, or Kumari, whose ornate front of bricks, statues and carved wood seem to have survived the initial quakes. It is not immediately known if the inner courtyard and rooms are safe. On the other side of Durbar Square, the brick-and-wood Shiva-Parvati temple house -- where the Hindu gods Shiva and his consort Parvati shelter -- appear to also have survived. On Kathmandu's outskirts the town of Patan suffered terrible damage when its central Durbar Square lost several pagodas as structures pancaked straight down while others merely shook and cracked. Fortunately others appear to still be standing, including the Sundari Chowk temple and a surviving lucky trio of holy structures : the gray stone, Mogul-influenced Krishna Mandir ; the 17th-century Bishwa Nath Mandir with its large stone elephants at the entrance ; and the nearby smaller 17th-century Bimsen Mandi ``god of the traders'' pagoda. Several miles away from Kathmandu, witnesses have been unable to immediately confirm the levels of destruction which have occurred in the lavish town of Bhaktapur. The locality had undergone years of extensive restoration work thanks to foreign and local artists and funding. The town offset some of that cost by charging tourists a fee to enter its central area, which displayed refined temples, pagodas, shrines and even a restaurant built into a main pagoda, allowing diners to view the best sites while munching their meals. Elsewhere in the Kathmandu Valley, the white-topped dome of the Boudhanath Stupa remains standing, but its smaller neighboring stupa has shown some damage from the quake. The Boudhanath Stupa is prized by Tibetan Buddhist refugees who have fled their Chinese-occupied homeland on foot through the Himalaya mountains. They are often seen reverently walking in a circle around the stupa's base while twirling ``prayer wheels'' and chanting. There has been no news as yet on damage caused to other famous places of Hindu and Buddhist worship, including the hilltop Swayambhunath temple on the outskirts of Kathmandu. That imposing structure is popularly known as the ``Monkey Temple'' because its often vicious wild monkeys are allowed to scamper among the trees on the temple's hill, terrifying visitors who have to hike up a lengthy stairway to reach the temples, shrines, shops and monks' residences.. The fate of the Pashupatinath Temple complex near Kathmandu's international airport is also not known. Pashupatinath's multiple pagodas and shrines flank its public funeral pyres which emit smoke whenever human corpses are routinely cremated before the ashes are dumped into a narrow river.
( CNN ) Can a prayer for diamonds actually turn up a gem ?. When you're exploring the fields at Crater of Diamonds State Park in Murfreesboro, Arkansas, the odds are higher than usual. ``Are you going to bless me and let me find a diamond today ?'' That was Susie Clark's prayer on April 23, according to the state park service. Soon after, Clark, who is from Evening Shade, Arkansas, saw a 3.69-carat white, teardrop-shaped diamond in the plowed field. Inspired by her prayer, Clark named it the Hallelujah Diamond. She plans to keep it. The diamond, which is the largest found at the park so far this year, is about the size of a pinto bean, says park interpreter Waymon Cox. ``And it's the largest one found since April 16, 2014, when a 6.19-carat white diamond, named the Limitless Diamond, was found at the park,'' he said, according to a park press release. It's the 122nd diamond found at Crater of Diamonds this year. Visitors get to keep what they find at the state park's 37.5-acre search field, which is named for an ancient eruption that scattered the area with gems. The area, which became a state park in 1972, is the only public site in the world where -- for a small fee -- anyone can dig for diamonds and keep them. It's not clear how much the diamond is worth, and park officials aren't trained to appraise them, according to the park website. But Oklahoman Tara Clymer sold a 3.85-carat diamond she found at the park last year for $ 20,000. 50 states, 50 spots : Natural wonders. Park staff regularly plow the area to bring more diamonds to the surface for visitors to discover. The 40.23-carat Uncle Sam, the nation's largest diamond, was found in 1924, and the ``perfect'' 3.03-carat Strawn-Wagner diamond was found in 1990. The Strawn-Wagner Diamond was cut in 1997 by the renowned diamond firm Lazare Kaplan International of New York. The now 1.09-carat diamond is on display at the park visitor center. The park stretches for more than 900 acres along the Little Missouri River, but the diamond field is the main attraction. More than 75,000 diamonds have been discovered there since farmer John Huddleston discovered gems on what was then his property in 1906.
( CNN ) Jacob Lawrence's groundbreaking work, ``The Migration of the Negro,'' is a series of 60 small paintings with text depicting the lives of millions of pre-World War II blacks as they moved from the oppressive South to the promise of a better life in the North. One frame in particular, No. 22, shows three black men dressed in their Sunday best, handcuffed, heads bowed standing in front of a window adorned with prison bars. The caption reads :. ``Another of the social causes of the migrants' leaving was that at times they did not feel safe, or it was not the best thing to be found on the streets late at night. They were arrested on the slightest provocation.''. Lawrence painted this picture around 1940. This is important to know because there are some people who blame President Barack Obama for racial tension in America as if the March on Washington scrubbed away the lasting effects of 300 years of inequality. No. 22 was painted before hip-hop became the piñata for conservative talk show hosts to bash and before sagging pants became a popular fashion statement. Some of us keep looking for a new reason why this old problem continues to haunt us because to think otherwise requires effort. It's a lot easier to retweet a Dr. King meme. It is more convenient to say the violence began when rioters threw bricks at police and not when a city's Police Department began terrorizing its residents. We criticize Baltimore's mayor for not ``restoring order'' as if paying victims of police brutality nearly $ 6 million in a four-year span is ``order.''. Now, some people are partially blaming the 2013 movie ``The Purge'' for the uprising in Baltimore as if the 1996 riots in St. Petersburg, Florida, happened on a different planet. Or that the more than 100 cases of Baltimore police brutality that were either lost or settled out of court since 2011 provide no insight as to what the residents have been dealing with for some time. An 87-year-old grandmother had her shoulder broken by overzealous police, and Sen. Rand Paul -- God bless him -- suggested the rise in absentee fathers is the reason for this latest clash. It is true only 34 % of black children live in a two-family household today, and I do believe that is a problem. Soul searching, as the President suggested, is something that needs to be had by all. But it is also true that 65 % of black children lived with both parents in 1960, and yet there was still a lack of trust between the police and the minority community. Sen. Paul's rationale falls apart when you consider that John Henry Crawford III was shot and killed by police at a Walmart in Ohio while on the phone talking with the mother of his two children. Crawford's father was literally playing with his two grandchildren as his son was being gunned down. In 1971, Marvin Gaye cracked the Top 10 on the pop charts with ``Inner City Blues,'' which included the lines :. Crime is increasing. Trigger happy policing. Panic is spreading. God knows where we're heading. And yet so many look at the protests, uprisings and yes, sometimes riots, with this incredulous demeanor as if the raw emotions captured on camera are materializing out of thin air. No backdrop. No historical context. Television journalists asking questions that seem to characterize the recent developments as unexplained anger detached from any tangible issue. It is as if they believe the absence of burning crosses translated into peace and harmony. Meanwhile, Louisiana state police want people to believe Victor White III shot himself in the chest while handcuffed sitting in the back of a police car. How can there be peace when the Department of Justice found black residents in Ferguson were preyed upon for years by a corrupt Police Department ? Where is the harmony when the average white household has 13 times the wealth of its black counterpart ? And we know the impact wealth has on education, housing and mortality. Now there is video of police in Inkster, Michigan, celebrating the beating of a suspect as he sits nearby with broken ribs, a head injury and bleeding. The officers fist pump and laugh. One of them even appears to joyfully re-enact parts of the incident in plain view of Floyd Dent, the man in custody. And when the incident in question was under investigation, the Inkster Police Department suppressed the video. Two months would go by before the public saw what we are paying for. But at least we saw it. In Chicago, the police department has yet to release dash cam video of the fatal encounter officers had with 17-year-old Laquan McDonald last October. The report said an officer fired shots into McDonald's chest after the teen lunged at them with a knife. Witnesses said the shooting was unjustified. The autopsy shows McDonald was shot 16 times from a variety of angles by the officer. The City Council recently approved a $ 5 million settlement but maintains there was no wrongdoing. The video could shed some light on what really happened.. which may explain why we have yet to see it. This comes on the heels of Mayor Rahm Emanuel establishing a $ 5.5 million reparations fund for victims of former CPD commander John Burge. For three decades Burge and his team ran a torture ring that used electric shock, burned and beat up more than 100 black men. And some look at Baltimore and the protests happening all around the country and wonder where all of this rage is coming from ?. This mistrust didn't come from somewhere. It's always been here. Woven in the comedic deliveries of Richard Pryor, Dick Gregory and Dave Chappelle ; saturated within the prose of Lorraine Hansberry, Maya Angelou and Shonda Rhimes ; heard in soulful cries of Billie Holiday's ``Strange Fruit'' to John Legend standing on an Oscar stage singing ``one day, when the glory comes it will be ours.'' For decades, the works of black artists have explicitly talked about the Baltimores of this country and though their work has been celebrated and curated, the message remains lost. Why else would someone believe sagging pants and hoodies are to blame for mass incarcerations ? That President Obama is the reason why some blacks are frustrated with police and not the dynamic beautifully captured by Lawrence 75 years ago. Before President Richard Nixon started the war on drugs. Before Eric Garner started selling loose cigarettes in Staten Island. Before Baltimore became the setting of a critically acclaimed TV show. There isn't a new reason why Freddie Gray's death triggered outrage. Just new ways for people to validate apathy and explain away racism.
( CNN ) Just about now, North Korea's enigmatic ruler was expected to be preparing to emerge from his fortified country for a visit to Moscow to join celebrations next week marking the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. The trip was highly anticipated. After all, this was to have been Kim's first official international trip since he came to power in 2011 following his father's death, and it would have provided a fascinating opportunity for the world to get a closer look at a young leader and a regime still largely shrouded in mystery. But this week, Russia announced that the trip had been canceled, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying Thursday that Moscow was informed via diplomatic channels that the trip would not happen. He said that ``the decision is connected with North Korean domestic affairs.''. What could have changed Kim's mind ? It is practically impossible to answer the question with absolute certainty, but a possible explanation is that Kim may not be feeling completely secure in his position. And nervous dictators prefer to stay home. True, Kim runs one of the most brutally repressive regimes on Earth. And there is unceasing public praise for the younger `Dear Leader,'' including frenzied eruptions of support. But these eruptions are carefully scripted, and those who have managed to flee the North confirm that in private, many are unhappy with the regime. Perhaps with the potential threats in mind, Kim feels the need to reassert his authority and keep his eye on the centers of power. In 2013, Kim shocked the country and stunned outside observers when he ordered the killing of his uncle, Jang Song Thaek, who had stood by his side from the day his father died. Jang had mentored and guided the young Kim as he took the reins, but the once-powerful Jang was arrested by soldiers during a Politburo meeting who dragged him away in a chilling scene broadcast on national television. The central news agency called Jang a ``traitor for all the ages,'' with vague accusations that he had behaved ``insolently.'' More seriously, he was accused of ``counter-revolutionary factional acts in a bid to overthrow the leadership.''. And just this week, and only a day before the Russians announced Kim's canceled travel plans, a South Korea lawmaker revealed that South Korea's National Intelligence Service had pieced together information suggesting that so far this year, Kim has ordered the execution of 15 senior government officials. According to South Korean legislator Shing Kyung-min, North Korea's vice chairman of the State Planning Commission, for example, was executed because he objected to plans to change the design of a new government hall from a rounded shape to one resembling a flower. Such an explanation is bizarre. And in keeping with the odd behavior we have grown accustomed to hearing about from North Korea. But there may be more to this. Kim -- who was still in his 20s when he took power and holds a host of titles, including Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army -- still finds it necessary to remind everyone at home that he is the one in charge. But although there is something almost comical about the explanations offered up by North Korea for the actions of its regime, a nervous, unpredictable, inexperienced leader with access to nuclear weapons is far from a laughing matter. As recently as 2013, North Korea conducted a nuclear test -- the country's third, and it has threatened to use them against South Korea, Japan and the United States. Meanwhile, it has threatened South Korea with ``final destruction,'' said it will turn the country's presidential office into a sea of fire, told Japan it would trigger a nuclear attack if Tokyo followed through on a warning to destroy any North Korean missiles fired in its direction, and declared the United States is seeking a war and that Pyongyang ``will be exercising our right to preemptive nuclear attacks.''. Such rhetoric is itself troubling. But experts have also warned this week that North Korea may have restarted its Yongbyon nuclear reactor, with the Institute for Science and International Security arguing that snow melting patterns in images of the plant suggest new activity at the plant. North Korea has been mostly out of the news in recent months, partly because so many other international crises have pushed it out of the headlines. But that doesn't mean tensions have eased. Just three weeks ago, Pyongyang fired missiles into the sea as U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter arrived on the Korean peninsula. All this suggests that gauging the state of mind of the North Korean leader is no easy task. But if Kim raises the alarm about threats from the outside, we will know he is likely feeling insecure at home and may be trying to boost internal support. That would be a danger sign for the people of North Korea -- and a flashing red light for the rest of the world. Read CNN Opinion's Flipboard magazine.
( CNN ) Eternally blooming in Kolkata, India, along the Hooghly River is Malik Ghat, a wholesale flower market that attracts more than 2,000 sellers each day. Photographer Ken Hermann visited the market for his project ``Flower Man,'' which is a series of portraits that casts light upon the people behind the petals. When Hermann was in Kolkata working on another assignment, he went to the market as a tourist. After that first encounter with Malik Ghat, his captivation with the market did not diminish and he became intent on returning. '' ( The flower sellers ) woke my curiosity. But at that time, I didn't really have the time to do the project,'' Hermann said. ``And this idea just kind of stuck in my head for almost two years.''. Hermann was able to spend about 10 days at the market, and did not allow any challenges to hinder the completion of ``Flower Man.'' He said that in addition to language barriers and the heat of Kolkata making communication complicated and shooting at certain times difficult, another adversity he faced was taking portraits of the female flower sellers. ``I had a really clear idea before I went ( to the market ) about what I wanted to do,'' Hermann said. ``I wanted to shoot the sellers -- the male and the female sellers.''. But none of the female flower sellers wished to be a part of Hermann's project, so he focused only on those who were interested in and comfortable with having their portrait taken. For the portraits, Hermann sought a neutral background. He first tried shooting under a bridge near the market, but quickly realized the lighting did not match the mood he wanted to create. He then decided to create the portraits by the Hooghly River. This allowed him to combine the hazy smog in the air, sunlight from above and studio lights of his own, which culminated to produce a surreal effect and overexposed look that made his subjects stand out. ``All the pictures are shot within noon and 3 p.m. when you have the sun straight from above, which gives ( the portraits ) this very hard light,'' Hermann said. ``And then I just used some studio light as a fill to make it a little bit more soft.''. Although the composition of the majority of Hermann's portraits encompasses the flower sellers in front of a neutral background, other portraits forgo this characteristic and consequently bring a sense of movement and fluidity to ``Flower Man.'' Viewers may see people or a dog appearing in a frame, or even birds flying in the sky and a boat floating in the water. One of the reasons Hermann did not create the flower sellers' portraits directly inside the market is because of the hectic atmosphere. Hermann compares Malik Ghat to the environments of financial trading and fish markets. ``It's impossible to shoot at the market, especially if you want a clean and quiet background, because there's so much going on,'' Hermann said. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Similar to the commitment needed to effectively and successfully operate within the financial and food industries, Hermann emphasized that the competitive atmosphere of the market and work ethic of the flower sellers was a major factor in whether a seller would agree to have their portrait made. ``All the other sellers -- they are so busy, so just convincing them to go near the river to get their portrait done and spend maybe 15 minutes of their time was a challenge,'' Hermann said. ``Because every minute they're not standing in the flower ( market ), they lose money.''. Hermann said that another important reason some flower sellers decided not to be photographed was because flowers are highly valued in India and serve as a prominent feature during many events and moments in people's lives, including everything from religious rituals and festivals to weddings and parties. ``Some of the flowers, ( the sellers ) didn't allow us to take pictures of because they're flowers used for offering in the temple,'' Hermann said. ``It was more a problem about the flowers than actually the guy behind, because they didn't want us to take the pictures because ( the flowers would ) lose their purity.''. Challenging perceptions and breaking down barriers are underlying elements within ``Flower Man.'' Hermann said viewers must not make assumptions about the socioeconomic status of the sellers, nor should they view the sellers through a fixed, rigid lens regarding the behaviors and roles associated with gender. Noticeable throughout the portraits is that none of the sellers is smiling, which is usually a behavior people tend to exhibit when in the presence of a camera. The lack of a smile enhances the organic nature of ``Flower Man,'' making the portraits a powerful representation of unforced and unfabricated human emotion. ``If you want to take pictures in India, people tend to just stand up and look proud and strong,'' Hermann said. ``It's very different from the Western world because if you take pictures here, people tend to smile.''. Like people, flowers come in all shapes, sizes and colors. When viewing Hermann's photos, this fact leaves viewers to consider if it is not the flowers that are decorations, but rather the sellers who bring vibrancy to the flowers. In the portrait of Sanju Joshi, for example, he is engulfed in endless layers of orange. ``They use these flowers in temples and all over India, so that's one of the more common flowers at the market,'' Hermann said. ``I really like that picture because they carry the flowers like it is a dress. You should see when they walk through the flower market, it's almost like ( the flowers are ) all alive.''. Similarly, the abundant leaves come to life in Odhir Gayen's portrait. ``These are a special kind of leaves, and many of ( the sellers ) carry them on their head and ( on their ) arms,'' Hermann said. ``And when they walk around, it's almost like a human bush or something like that.''. Hermann plans to return to Malik Ghat and looks forward not only to the opportunity to photograph different kinds of flowers -- as the range varies based on the seasons -- but also to the chance to present the flower sellers featured in ``Flower Man'' with their portraits. ``I enjoyed this project,'' Hermann said. ``There's a lot of photographers going to India and then showing a poor, bad situation.. I have a totally different approach. I want to show some more proudness and find the beauty of people.''. Ken Hermann is a photographer based in Copenhagen. You can follow him on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
( CNN ) Buckle up for another Mercedes battle in the Formula One world championship. Lewis Hamilton took victory for the Silver Arrows at the Chinese Grand Prix -- only for his teammate Nico Rosberg to later claim he had ruined his race by driving slowly. The reigning world champion captured his 35th grand prix win with a peerless pole-to-flag win under Shanghai's sunny skies. ``It was great to have a smooth weekend,'' the British racer said before spraying the champagne on the podium. ``The team have done a fantastic job to up our pace and improve after our last race where we struggled a bit.''. F1 championship standings. Hamilton had lost the Malaysia Grand Prix in a strategic battle with the Ferrari of Sebastian Vettel but it was business as usual in Shanghai. Rosberg came home second for Mercedes to snuff out the threat from the chasing Italian racers and renew his rivalry with Hamilton. ``It was an important comeback for the team,'' said the 2014 championship runner-up. Ferrari continued to put pressure on the world champion team with Vettel finishing third to collect his third straight podium of 2015. ``We just wanted to bring the podium back home,'' said Vettel, a four-time world champion with Red Bull Racing. ``It's been three out of three so far so it feels pretty good. I feel happy in the team and hopefully we can get a little bit closer to challenge these guys.''. Vettel is just 13 points behind Hamilton in the world championship and four points ahead of Rosberg, after the first three races of the year. Rosberg unhappy. It was a disheartening weekend for Rosberg -- the son of 1982 world champion Keke -- and he allowed his frustrations to spill over for the first time this season. On Saturday, Hamilton beat him to pole position by just 0.042 seconds and Rosberg complained to his engineers on the pit to car radio : ``Oh, come on guys !''. Then the German insisted his race was hampered when he found himself sandwiched between race leader Hamilton and Vettel, both of whom had stopped for fresh tyres a few laps earlier. ``Lewis is driving very slowly. Tell him to speed up,'' Rosberg told the Mercedes pit wall. Mercedes then instructed Hamilton on the team radio : ``OK Lewis we'd like to pick the pace up a little bit.''. Rosberg complained after the race that Hamilton's lackadaisical Sunday driving was holding him up, pushing him back into Vettel's thrall and taking life out of his tyres. ``It's interesting to hear from you Lewis about your pace up front,'' Rosberg said in the post-race media conference. ``That was compromising my race. Driving slowly, that was unnecessary, and meant Sebastian was closer to me. ``It cost me a lot of time.. I'm unhappy about that of course.''. Hamilton responded : ``It's not my job to look after Nico's race. It's my job to bring the car home. ``I didn't do anything intentionally to slow the cars down. If Nico had wanted to get by he could have tried, but he didn't.''. Bahrain. Hamilton has won two grands prix in 2015 while Rosberg has yet to climb onto the top step of the podium. If the German is to repeat his thrilling 2014 world title challenge, which went down to the final race in Abu Dhabi, he will need to turn things around soon. Rosberg has the chance to exorcise his frustrations on track at the Bahrain Grand Prix in just seven day's time. Ferrari will hope the hot track temperatures at the desert race will help them topple Mercedes again, as they did on Sepang's sizzling circuit. The Italian team have the horsepower. Vettel finished less than three seconds behind Hamilton in China with Ferrari teammate Kimi Raikkonen fourth. There was also a small feat further down the field as former Ferrari race winner Fernando Alonso finished his first race for the McLaren Honda partnership with 12th place in China. The Spanish double world champion missed the Australian Grand Prix because of a head injury sustained in testing and then retired in Malaysia.
( CNN ) Pushed to his limits, a college professor took the extreme measure of threatening to fail his entire class. In an email to his students, Irwin Horwitz accused them of ``backstabbing, game playing, cheating, lying, fighting.''. The professor at the Texas A&M University Galveston Campus expected his missive would create some conflict, but that it could then be resolved quickly -- and quietly. Those hopes were dashed when one report by local media mushroomed into a tornado of nationwide coverage. The story went viral. Suddenly, his name was spreading on Twitter, Facebook and Reddit, accompanied by the kind of strong, unvarnished opinions that you can make about people you've never met. He was a hero who taught today's entitled youth a much-needed lesson, or an egotistical nightmare of a teacher who threw a fit. One thing was certain : He, and his employer, were now thrust into a spotlight that neither had asked for. ``I did what I did without any intention of seeing this in the news or seeing this on the Internet,'' Horwitz said. ``I will stand by what I did, but I'm not career suicidal.''. Texas A&M says Horwitz remains an employee and that no one has asked him to stop teaching. But Horwitz, a nontenure-track professor in the maritime administration program, is afraid the notoriety will cost him this job and future jobs. Horwitz said his intent was not to be controversial, and the sharply worded email to students was not his first about the class. The day before writing to his students, Horwitz wrote a similar email to the CEO of the Texas A&M Galveston Campus and to the school's chief academic officer. ``I have never in my capacity as an academic ever encountered a class as completely disgraceful, dishonest and disrespectful'' as his current strategic management class, he wrote to the administrators. He accused the students of shirking responsibility, making excuses and complaining their way to better grades. He would no longer teach the course and would fail the entire class, Horwitz wrote. ``The class of graduating seniors is nothing more than a circus that is anything but academic,'' he wrote. ``But they are your problem now.''. It was the next day that Horwitz wrote to the students, calling the class ``an embarrassment in general,'' and said that ``I am frankly and completely disgusted.''. Once his words echoed in traditional and social media, the narrative -- angry prof flunks entire class -- might as well have been set in stone. The story was such a talker that even The Onion offered a parody. ``I'm not looking to fail students,'' Horwitz said. ``I don't get a bonus for failing students.''. ``The letter sounded a little bit more definite than I wanted it to,'' he added. He never actually changed anyone's grade. There were some students he wasn't going to fail, he said, and some who were on the border who could have pulled themselves out. But Horwitz stands by his tough stance ; there was an issue of competency and of professionalism that had to be addressed, he said. The course in question is a capstone course for a maritime administration degree and is supposed to merge what the students learned in their other business courses. ``I had a large majority of people taking the capstone course who could not do a break-even analysis,'' the professor said. ``If you can not do a break-even analysis, then you don't deserve a bachelor's degree in business.''. His other complaint was about professionalism. Horwitz said students would swear at him, cheat and spread rumors about him online. This is related to their grades, he said, because dealing with people you don't like is a business skill. On online message boards, users claiming to be students in the class accused the professor of exaggerating the situation or fabricating parts of his story. One purported student called Horwitz ``a little obnoxious,'' but said he is a good teacher and fair if you follow his rules. Should the professor have been surprised that his email went viral ?. The fiery language and strong allegations were likely to be news if the email went public, but maybe there is more to it. The situation hits on a popular argument on the media and Internet : What do we think of millennials ?. Reflecting on his most recent class, Horwitz said there is some truth to stereotypes of millennials as entitled and pampered. He mentioned the overdependence of students on cell phones and other electronics, and the power those devices have to interrupt concentration. The other factor is a failure of K-12 education, said Horwitz, who has met college students who don't know how to convert fractions to decimals. ``What I'm trying to do is to give an honest assessment of their performance,'' he said. In a statement, Patrick Louchouarn, the vice president for academic affairs and chief academic officer at Texas A&M Galveston Campus, said the entire class will not be failed. ``Each student will receive an individual grade based upon work completed during the semester,'' Louchouarn said. ``The university is listening to concerns about this issue from students and faculty and will address them according to our policies.''. The flurry of attention is unwelcome and Horwitz fears it will affect his career in academia. But it's likely his story will have a short shelf life. People probably will forget about it and turn their attention to the next grabby headline. But he said he thinks this episode will follow him everywhere. He said he feels a public shaming of sorts. Online public shaming has become a research topic of its own. People who have been pilloried online for comments they made wonder if they will get a second chance. ``This is really destroying my life,'' Horwitz said.
Tokyo ( CNN ) A crowd gathers near the entrance of Tokyo's upscale Mitsukoshi Department Store, which traces its roots to a kimono shop in the late 17th century. Fitting with the store's history, the new greeter wears a traditional Japanese kimono while delivering information to the growing crowd, whose expressions vary from amusement to bewilderment. It's hard to imagine the store's founders in the late 1600's could have imagined this kind of employee. That's because the greeter is not a human -- it's a robot. Aiko Chihira is an android manufactured by Toshiba, designed to look and move like a real person. It was put on temporary display at the department store. Toshiba says Chihira has 43 motors allowing it to move, speak in sign language and even sing. The regular greeter, Ayako Seiryu, says she's not worried about a robot replacing her -- even one made to resemble a real 32-year-old woman. ``Communication is important,'' she says. ``My strength is I can actually talk to people.''. Chihira can't have a conversation yet, acknowledges Hitoshi Tokuda, Toshiba spokesperson. But he says the technology is evolving quickly and someday, robots like Chihira could replace humans for certain jobs. A growing number of Japanese businesses are testing out robots as a possible solution to the country's shrinking workforce. They're appearing in stores, banks and soon even hotels. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is trying out ``Nao,'' a customer service robot that answers basic questions and is designed to speak 19 languages. The robotic polygot could prove useful serving foreign customers during the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. By then, the bank hopes to have even more robots on staff. ``Pepper'' is a humanoid robot that ``chats'' with customers. A humanoid has human-like characteristics such as arms, legs and a head -- but is designed to look like a robot. Pepper first began appearing in Tokyo stores last year. Manufacturer Softbank hopes it'll eventually be a ``family robot,'' like a sleeker version of Rosie on ``The Jetsons.''. Meet Pepper -- the world's first emo robot. A hotel scheduled to open at Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki this summer plans to have 10 robot staff members and aims to increase that to more than 90 % of hotel services operated by robots. Today's novelty could be tomorrow's necessity. Japan has an aging population that has prompted serious talks about how to incorporate robots into the nation's shrinking workforce. One group that seems willing to embrace robots are Japan's senior citizens. A survey by nursing home operator Orix Living found more seniors would feel comfortable being cared for by a robot than a foreign nurse. In a nation with a dwindling population, waning workforce, and deep resistance to immigration, it seems robots will only play a larger role in Japan's future.
( CNN ) A longtime friend of Joni Mitchell has filed a legal petition seeking to be named the singer-songwriter's conservator. Mitchell, who was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1997, was taken to UCLA Medical Center a month ago after being found unconscious in her home. She remains at the hospital, according to Leslie Morris' court petition filed April 28. Morris is described as Mitchell's friend of more than 44 years in the legal documents. Whether the folk and jazz singer is conscious remains a matter of some confusion. In her April 28 petition, Morris says Mitchell is unconscious : ``At this time she ( Mitchell ) remains unconscious and unable to make any responses, and is therefore unable to provide for any of her personal needs.''. But on Mitchell's website, a statement posted the same day that says it was approved by Morris says Mitchell is alert. ``Contrary to rumors circulating on the Internet today, Joni is not in a coma. Joni is still in the hospital -- but she comprehends, she's alert, and she has her full senses. A full recovery is expected. The document obtained by a certain media outlet simply gives her longtime friend Leslie Morris the authority -- in the absence of 24-hour doctor care -- to make care decisions for Joni once she leaves the hospital.''. When asked about the discrepancy between statements about Mitchell's health on her website and in the legal filing, her publicist, Alisse Kingsley, responded that ``the website'' was accurate. A doctor's capacity declaration stated that Mitchell will likely be unable, due to her medical condition, to attend any court hearings for the next four to six months. Adoring fans are posting their tributes to Mitchell at WeLoveYouJoni.com. Sonya Hamasaki and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Richard Dysart, the award-winning stage actor who gained fame playing law firm leader Leland McKenzie on ``L.A. Law,'' has died. He was 86. He died of cancer at his home in Santa Monica, California, according to his wife, Kathryn Jacobi Dysart. For decades, Dysart was a noted TV and film character actor, and stage star, winning a Drama Desk award for playing coach in Jason Miller's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, ``That Championship Season.'' But it was as McKenzie, the occasionally crusty paterfamilias on ``L.A. Law,'' that he's likely best remembered. `L.A. Law' : Sex, crime and the `Venus Butterfly'. McKenzie usually took a back seat to the younger, more glamorous characters on ``Law,'' a Steven Bochco-created legal show that owed much to his previous hit, ``Hill Street Blues.''. The employees of McKenzie, Brackman, Chaney and Kuzak included Harry Hamlin's smooth-talking Michael Kuzak, Corbin Bernsen's skirt-chasing divorce attorney Arnie Becker and Michele Greene's idealistic Abby Perkins. There was as much time devoted to bedroom activities as there was legal issues while the show bravely took on such topics as AIDS, child molestation and capital punishment. But McKenzie was the one who kept them in check while still encouraging their better instincts. ( Alan Rachins' Douglas Brackman was the business guy. ). He was also involved in one of the show's most surprising plot twists : a romantic affair with a rival, Rosalind Shays ( Diana Muldaur ), who met with one of TV's most shocking deaths -- plunging down an elevator shaft. Dysart appeared in every episode of the show, which ran from 1986 to 1994. After ``L.A. Law'' ended, Dysart took few roles, though he did return for an ``L.A. Law'' reunion movie in 2002. Dysart's other credits include 1971's ``The Hospital,'' 1975's ``The Day of the Locust,'' 1979's ``Being There,'' John Carpenter's 1982 version of ``The Thing,'' 1985's ``The Falcon and the Snowman'' and 1987's ``Mask.''. He is survived by Jacobi Dysart, his wife of nearly three decades, a son and two grandchildren. CNN's Rachel Wells contributed to this story.
( CNN ) With the announcement that E! will air a new documentary series this summer about Bruce Jenner's transition from male to female, fans are eagerly awaiting bearing witness to the former Olympian's journey. The as yet not titled eight-part, one-hour series is set to premiere July 26. Jenner, who along with his family has starred in the hit E! reality series ``Keeping Up with the Kardashians,'' recently went public with the fact that he is transgender. Here are a few things we hope the new show will offer :. A closer look at Jenner's current relationship with his former wife. Fans of ``Keeping Up with the Kardashians'' often got to see the sometimes strained relationship between Bruce and his wife Kris. As the Kardashian family matriarch who also manages her kids' careers, Kris butted heads with Bruce over everything from their children to his desire for more privacy. The pair announced they had filed for divorce in September 2014 after some time of living apart. There has been plenty of speculation regarding Kris Jenner's feelings about Bruce's transitioning though she tweeted her support after he made the announcement Friday during an interview with ABC's Diane Sawyer. What role he will take in the transgender community. Before he was a realty television star, Jenner was a popular motivational speaker. He is already being hailed for bringing attention to the transgender community. ``Bruce is incredibly courageous and an inspiration, and we are proud to be entrusted with this deeply personal and important story,'' said Jeff Olde, executive vice president of programming and development for E! ``This series will present an unfiltered look as Bruce boldly steps into uncharted territory and is true to himself for the first time.''. According to E! Jennifer Finney Boylan, who is the national co-chair of GLAAD, will serve as a consultant on Jenner's series. ``Orange Is the New Black'' actress Laverne Cox, who is transgender, has also offered Jenner her support. ``I think a lot of people tuned in expecting to see a spectacle, and they tuned in and saw a profoundly nuanced, complicated, beautiful human being,'' Cox told MSNBC's Janet Mock. His relationship with his kids. Jenner is extremely close with his children. He has six biological kids with former wives Chrystie Scott, Linda Thompson, and Kris Jenner. He also helped raise Kris Jenner's four children -- Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Robert Kardashian -- from her first marriage. ``Those are the ones I'm concerned with and the only ones I don't -- I can't allow, I can't let myself hurt them,'' Jenner told Sawyer during their interview about his fear in telling his children. Many of his kids appear supportive of his transition and his two youngest, daughter Kendall and Kylie, released the following statement to ABC about their father : ``We love our dad very much as he is an amazing father. We couldn't ask for a better dad. He has the biggest heart and all we want for him is to be happy. If he's happy, we're happy.''. How fans will react. Jenner has long been one of the world's most popular Olympic gold medalists. Viewers of ``Keeping Up with the Kardashians'' often praised him for being so level-headed amidst all the paparazzi-fueled chaos. But with his new series Jenner will be taking center stage and venturing into completely new territory at a time when some still grapple with issues of gender and sexuality. He sounds like he is ready. ``We're going to make a difference in the world with what we're doing, and if the whole Kardashian show gave me a foothold into that world, to be able to go out there and do something good, I got not problem with that,'' Jenner told Sawyer.
( CNN ) In a sobering example of life imitating art, the chaos sweeping the streets of Baltimore may have been partly inspired by a series of action-horror movies. Baltimore police said rioting at a shopping mall and elsewhere Monday afternoon started amid rumors, spread on social media, of a ``purge'' led by large groups of marauding high school students. The term appears to be a reference to 2013's ``The Purge'' and its sequel, last year's ``The Purge : Anarchy,'' about a dystopian future America where on one day each year, all laws are suspended for a 12-hour period and all crimes, including murder, become temporarily legal. In the movies, set in Los Angeles, people barricade themselves in their homes at night while gangs of violent ``purgers'' roam the streets. The government markets the sanctioned mayhem as a catharsis that reduces crime on the other 364 days of the year -- when in fact it's really a means of population control, mostly against people living in poor urban neighborhoods. Both ``Purge'' movies were box-office hits and a third installment, ``The Purge : Vengeance,'' is planned for 2016. The Baltimore Sun reported that a flier circulated widely among city school students via social media touted a ``purge'' to begin Monday at 3 p.m. at Mondawmin Mall and end downtown. The flier included an image of protesters smashing the windshield of a police car in Baltimore on Saturday, the Sun said. How Baltimore police, protesters battle on Twitter. Maryland's largest city has been on edge since an African-American man, Freddie Gray, died April 19 from a spinal cord injury he suffered while in police custody. Peaceful protests gave way to violence Saturday night and again Monday, as agitators threw bricks at police, looted stores and set fire to cars and buildings. Scattered references to #purge and #ThePurge began appearing in Twitter and Instagram posts Monday about the unrest in Baltimore.
Gorkha, Nepal ( CNN ) The ride from Kathmandu to near the epicenter of Nepal's devastating earthquake is not for those who get easily carsick. Steep slopes and small winding roads through deep river valleys greet us as we make our way to a town where Nepalese and international medical teams are treating the injured, in much less than ideal circumstances. The view along the six-hour journey from the capital is deceptive. Although I see numerous landslides, I am surprised that the villages we are driving through are relatively unaffected. During the entire journey, I notice only about 10 collapsed or seriously damaged houses. One of the biggest challenges rescue workers are facing in Nepal is reaching affected people in remote mountainous areas. One of them is Gorkha, a district northwest of Kathmandu. The town we were visiting looks intact. Some houses have cracks, and I see a few collapsed brick walls. Most of the shops and businesses are open. But our first stop at the district hospital brings us into the full reality of the human catastrophe. The hospital campus is overflowing with patients. The facility is simply not big enough to handle such calamity. The injured are not from the town of Gorkha, which lies near the top of one of the numerous mountain ranges. They are from northern part of the district, where some 200,000 people live. To accommodate all the casualties, the hospital built a tarpaulin shelter over the parking lot. At a time of our arrival, there are about 20 patients lying on mattresses on a dusty concrete floor. The youngest is 10, the oldest in his 70s. Most of them have visible wounds : deep cuts, bruised faces, broken arms and legs or spinal injuries. All of their faces with empty looks are still expressing the terror they went through and the pain they are suffering. Mita Gurung, 10, sustained injuries to her face and leg when her house in the village of Sinjung partially collapsed. Her mother was injured in the tremor. Mita is gently tended by volunteer child counselor Tara May Bishakarma. ``I just found what she likes and keep repeating it. Her injuries are fairly superficial, but she is traumatized. It will take some time, but she will recover,'' Bishakarma says. Children usually get excited when being filmed. Mita seems almost unaware of my camera. Little food, less optimism in Kathmandu tent city. The situation in the hospital's emergency room is similar. Every bed is taken. All the injured are taken care of by attentive doctors and nurses. Some have family members with them. Despite the gravity of the situation, the atmosphere here is calm. Gorkha's hospital is ill-equipped to treat more serious injuries and serves mostly as a transit point. Here, the injured get necessary first aid and as soon as possible are transferred to bigger hospitals in other districts or in Kathmandu. There are not enough ambulances, and most of the injured must travel on old buses. People unable to walk are transported on makeshift wooden stretchers. I can not even imagine traveling on the road we just came in with a broken leg or a spinal injury. The caws of crows above Gorkha are frequently interrupted by sounds of helicopters. We leave the hospital and go to check the landing zones. One is a sports field, and the second a flat meadow on the ridge. Many of the damaged villages are not accessible by roads. To fly to most remote places from Gorkha takes about 30 minutes, five days on foot. The helicopters operated by Nepalese military bring tents, tarps, blankets, food and baby supplies to most damaged areas. They bring back the injured. One helicopter brings two stranded Danish tourists from Chumchet, a village in the Tsum Valley. They are in a group of 11 trekkers from Slovakia, Poland and the Czech Republic who remain in the valley. Most of the helicopters are small and can only pick up two to three passengers. We head back to the hospital, where we meet Olivier Hagon. He is the head of a mission of the Swiss Humanitarian Aid Unit, a Swiss government agency. The agency's ``Mother and Child'' team helps the needy during disasters around the world. ``For us, it's most important to focus on the most vulnerable ones : mothers and children. Women in labor who do not have a bed, women in need of a cesarean ( section ) without access to surgery facilities,'' says Hagon. The rest of the 10-member unit arrives from Kathmandu in the evening. The team includes a pediatrician, a pediatric surgeon, an orthopedic surgeon, a midwife, an anesthesiologist and a gynecologist. Within two hours, they set up two modern fully functioning operating theaters at the hospital. The group's philosophy is ``to support, not to invade.''. They work very closely with staff of Gorkha's hospital. The Swiss Humanitarian Aid Unit is followed by 26 members of the International Search and Rescue Germany. They bring seven search dogs. Leader Thomas Laackmann explains : ``Right now we focus on finding survivors. The chances are diminishing every hour. Members of our team are trained medics. We will also assist with treating the injured.'' All aid workers sleep in tents on hospital premises. On Thursday, we wake up to a drizzly morning. Heavy fog blankets surrounding slopes and mountains. All helicopter flights are suspended. People in remote areas desperately awaiting help won't get any today. But here in Gorkha, humanitarian teams are at full speed. Swiss doctors along with their Nepalese colleagues perform surgeries. The German team heads off in a bus to villages reachable by road. We wish our hosts in Gorkha the best of luck and leave for Kathmandu mid-afternoon. I had come to see how serious the situation is and how local and state authorities are coping. I am too overwhelmed and too exhausted to draw any conclusions. But I learned a lot about resilience of the Nepalese and about good people from around the world committed to help them. Much help will be needed.
( CNN ) Be afraid -- be very afraid. This is the warning the world deserves to hear. Because the leader of the free world refuses to look with clear eyes at the chief security challenges of the 21st century : the fruits of radical Islam. The results of the Obama White House's innovative efforts to make the world a better place can be accounted for in the ever-growing numbers of victims of radical Islam in the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia. Not to mention here in the United States, Canada and Europe. Is it not a tragic irony that the Arab Spring-era policies of a Nobel Peace Prize recipient accommodated the transition of Syria into the world's newest jihad theater while leaving Libya a failed state and Yemen a failing state ?. The Syrian jihad gave rise to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which now uses Syria as a rear operating base to support its jihad in Iraq, which could soon spill over into Jordan. Plus, Libya is now being used as a rear operating base by ISIS and other global jihadist elements striving to redraw the map of the Middle East, even as they plan attacks in Europe and North America. Given the frightfully slow pace America's commander-in-chief is currently allowing our military and intelligence community to take action against both ISIS and its progenitor, al Qaeda, the picture of what's in store is clear : The body count will continue to grow in the places where these groups can generate buy-in for their agendas. And neither the United States nor our Western allies are immune to this cancer. Academics who must say something new or different to garner interest in their work may describe the agendas of ISIS and al Qaeda as distinctly different. But the fact is they are not -- their agendas, which constitute the foremost threats to the global security environment today, are manifestations of radical Islam. Of course, it's hardly a surprise President Barack Obama refuses to acknowledge all this in plain terms -- the president and his national security advisers have too often proven naïve, with a dangerous habit of viewing the world not as it is, but as they hope it could be. There is no shortage of examples that highlight the absence of sound foresight on the parts of the world's most powerful politician and his national security team. Just take the National Strategy for Counterterrorism published by the White House in 2011. That document contained the assertion that, ``Since the beginning of 2011, the transformative change sweeping North Africa and the Middle East -- along with the death of Osama bin Laden -- has further changed the nature of the terrorist threat, par-ticularly as the relevance of al Qaeda and its ideology has been further diminished.''. Yet, fast forward to January 2014 and America's top intelligence official, director of National Intelligence James Clapper, advised Congress that al Qaeda was no less capable of threatening the United States and our allies than a decade earlier. Soon after Clapper acknowledged al Qaeda was not a band on the run, as President Obama had described the terrorist enterprise, a report by terrorism expert Seth Jones of the RAND Corporation highlighted yet another inconvenient truth for the White House : As restraints on freedom of expression of radical religious views vanished in places like Libya, Tunisia and Egypt during the Arab Spring, those states became fertile recruitment grounds for terrorist groups -- including al Qaeda and groups aligned with it. According to data compiled by Jones, from 2010 through 2013, the number of Salafi jihadist groups increased by 58 %. These groups are fueled by Salafiyya Jihadiyya, an ideology that not only informs the agenda of al Qaeda, but is the source code for the agenda of the al Qaeda offshoot ISIS. Most recently, absent from the National Security Strategy produced by the Obama White House in February 2015 is any real meaningful discussion concerning threats posed by al Qaeda. Yes, Osama bin Laden was killed on President Obama's watch. But contrary to what the White House seemed to think in 2011, bin Laden's death has not lifted the shadow he casts over America's, or our allies' security. Indeed, within days of our new National Security Strategy's publication date, in the seventh issue of ISIS's English-language magazine Dabiq, the group's leaders described their jihad as a continuation of the jihad charted by bin Laden, while accusing his successor, Ayman al-Zawahiri, of steering al Qaeda off the path of its former leader. Meanwhile, Yemen -- home to al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the al Qaeda branch that claimed credit for the January 2015 attack in Paris at the office of Charlie Hebdo -- has also become a failed state. AQAP is helmed by the second-highest-ranking official in al Qaeda writ large, and the Obama administration views it as the most dangerous component of al Qaeda's global network. So it is interesting that, in the months before the Yemeni government was overthrown by Iran-backed rebels, President Obama described the U.S.-Yemen counterterrorism partnership as a shining example of success in the fight against al Qaeda -- interesting because the President did not do more to help that ``partner'' government remain in power. Once again, the president and his advisers appear to have either ignored or failed to recognize the trajectory of events in the Middle East. What were they thinking ? And how do they plan to combat AQAP now ?. Despite what the White House wants the world to believe, a sober look at the security environment reveals the following key realities :. ISIS controls a large amount of territory in the Middle East, and the group is rapidly growing its ranks in places such as Libya and Afghanistan, while at the same time inspiring and plotting attacks in the West. And, although ISIS is trying to ``out al Qaeda'' al Qaeda, resorting to attention winning stunts to boost its profile on television sets around the world, al Qaeda itself is no less of a threat to the United States and our allies today than it was in January 2014. At the same time, the routine failures of President Obama and his advisers to understand the security environment, and to appropriately tailor America's national security posture in a manner demanded by it, foretells more disasters lie ahead. Not only Americans, but also our allies should be very, very afraid. Indeed, President Obama's refusal to simply call a problem like radical Islam by its name strongly suggests he is unwilling to make the difficult decisions that must be made today if we are to stand a chance of defeating radical Islamist groups. History has shown the dangers that millions can be placed in if our leaders don't face down a looming threat by calling it what it is and putting our full weight behind efforts to vanquish it. President Obama has the resources at his disposal to do just that. But if he wants to help define a future for the Middle East and North Africa in which fewer threats emanate from those regions, he must spend more time listening to talented professionals in our military and intelligence community versus the idealists and yes-men surrounding him at the White House. There is too much at stake in the near term to continue down the path of experimentation with Pollyannaish theories about how to attain this future that have actually rendered us less safe. Indeed, President Obama should also pay closer attention to what representatives from Arab states are saying behind closed doors. Most of their bosses would love to be the claimants to the prize of defeating ISIS and al Qaeda. However, all of them recognize that, unless we all want things to get a whole lot worse before they might get any better, the United States will have to deploy considerably more of our ``kinetic'' resources to put those victories in sight. This does not mean a ground forces-intensive response is required from us at this time. But if the President thinks it prudent to wait on our Arab partners to do most of the heavy lifting, he could be guaranteeing this will be the case in the not-too-distant future.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) Kathmandu is a city with few good stories right now, but Tanka Maya Sitoula has one of them. The 40-year-old mother-of-four was at home when Saturday's deadly 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck, bringing the 5-story building down around her ground floor apartment. In the wake of the disaster, which has left at least 4,500 people dead across Nepal, Sitoula endured 36 long hours trapped in a room on the ground floor, before she was freed by an Indian rescue team. Remarkably, she escaped without injury, apparently protected by a beam. Sitoula, who talked to CNN through an interpreter, says she remained confident she would survive throughout her ordeal amid the rubble. ``I heard people making noise outside so I thought I would be rescued,'' she said, as she and her family sheltered in the grounds of a nearby school. ``I was confident that everybody was there outside and that I would be rescued.''. What did she do for 36 hours ? ``I was just lying down,'' she says. ``There was no room to move here and there.''. Sitoula's husband Mahendra, a butcher, said he called out for help for hours after the quake, as he could hear her shouting in the rubble of the collapsed building. ``I was totally confident that she was there,'' he said. ``I never stopped calling her. And also from down below she was making sounds and I could hear her.''. It took 18 hours before the necessary help arrived, he said. And it took another 18 hours to free her. ``I was asking people for help. Traffic police, whoever I could find. What happened was there were no tools to cut through the metal debris.''. Eventually, a rescue team from India had the equipment required, he said. Throughout the ordeal, he never gave up hope, he says : ``I was confident that my wife was safe and sound.''. He was only concerned about how she would fare during the attempt to free her. Inspector Karam Singh from India's National Disaster Management Authority was supervising search and rescue efforts at the Sitoulas' former home Tuesday -- a bright pink building, pancaked into two levels, with an entire wall sheared off to reveal its purple interior. He described the rescue efforts as physically draining work -- ``cutting, pushing and pulling'' -- but extremely rewarding in the case of Sitoula. ``She was happy, so so happy. She wasn't stopping praising us,'' he said. ``We said it's good to have a -LSB- survivor -RSB-.''. Singh said workers had recovered one body from the building, adding that he believed eight to 10 others remained trapped inside. But as a French team of sniffer dogs completed a sweep of the ruins with no promising signs, following a search with a sensor earlier which also showed no signs of life, Singh said there was ``no chance'' of finding any survivors. As a digger worked to clear the rubble of her former home, Sitoula agreed : two days after her rescue, she says it is highly unlikely there are others as lucky as her, still surviving beneath the rubble. The prognosis is equally dire in Kathmandu's Gangabhu neighborhood, where search teams are focusing their efforts on a cluster of collapsed six-story guesthouses. A handler from a Japanese search dog team climbs down the wreckage with a stern expression. ``I'm sorry. It didn't work out,'' he tells the Nepalese police officers involved in the search and recovery effort. Officer Tejush Swarnakar, with the Nepalese armed police, says officials believe about 50 people may be trapped in the rubble. Four bodies have been recovered -- but on Monday, there was a rare survival story. Members of GEA, a Turkish volunteer search and rescue team, pulled 21-year-old John Keisi from the debris after a 13-hour rescue effort. Swarnakar's colleagues were also diverted into action nearby, when dozens of protesters block a busy thoroughfare, chanting : ``Down with the government.''. There are complaints, specifically, that the government is not doing enough to prevent rising transport prices in the wake of the earthquake. A bus window is smashed and there are brief scuffles as police move in to clear the crowd using shields and long batons. A short walk away, along the banks of the Bishnumati River, residents perch precariously on the slanted roof of a collapsed building in an attempt to salvage what they can. Next door, a striking sight : a rope of knotted sheets hangs from a third-floor window. Neighbor Aakash Karki, 19, says that seven people escaped using the rope. As the sun starts to set, crowds gather in Kathmandu's Sitapali neighborhood to watch the work of a large group of rescue and recovery teams. This is where members of GEA made the first of their two rescues in Nepal at 3 a.m. Sunday, pulling Bikram Chepang, 22, from the debris of 11 collapsed buildings. Now, back at the site, there are faint hopes that a third, and remarkable, rescue may on the cards. A search dogs scouring the wreckage has given an indication that it may have detected life. The volunteers continue their search, but conclude the dog was mistaken. They don't believe there's anyone alive inside. READ MORE : Nepal earthquake - how you can helpREAD MORE : Shattered lives - houses and families ripped apart.
( CNN ) Freddie Gray was arrested Baltimore police on the morning of April 12 without incident, according to police. Less than an hour after he was detained, officers transporting him called for a medic. He subsequently slipped into a coma, dying a week after his initial arrest. So what happened ?. The events surrounding Gray's encounter with police remain unclear. To shed light on what happened, police released a more detailed timeline of events on Monday, and officials speaking at a news conference elaborated on specifics of the events. ``We want to clear up some of the confusions that may exist,'' Baltimore Deputy Police Commissioner Jerry Rodriguez said. ``We will be looking specifically at our actions from the point that we came into contact with Mr. Gray up until the time we requested medical assistance -- specifically, did we miss any warnings ? Should we have acted sooner ? Should we have acted in any different manner ?''. This is what police say occurred :. --. 8:39:12 a.m., Sunday, April 12. At the corner of North Avenue and Mount Street in Baltimore, a police officer makes eye contact with two individuals, one of them Gray. Both individuals start running southbound as officers begin pursuing them. 8:39:52 a.m.. One unit ( officer ) says ``I got him'' at 1700 Presbury Street, two blocks south of North and Mount. 8:40:12 a.m.. An officer says we've got one and confirms the address of 1700 Presbury, where Gray gave up without the use of force, according to Rodriguez. One officer took out his stun gun but did not deploy it, he said. 8:42:52 a.m. Gray asks for an inhaler. Police request a ``wagon'' to transport him. 8:46:02 a.m.. The van's driver says he believes Gray is acting ``irate'' in the back, according to Rodriguez. 8:46:12 a.m.. At the corner of Mount Street and Baker Street, an officer asks the vehicle driver to stop so they can finish paperwork. At that point, Gray is placed in leg irons and put back in the wagon. Police interviewed several witnesses in the community with regard to that specific stop, Rodriguez said. The videos that were filmed by bystanders show events similar to what Rodriguez describes happens at this point. 8:54:02 a.m.. The wagon clears Mount Street and heads southbound towards central booking. 8:59:52 a.m.. The van's driver asks for an additional unit to ``check on his prisoner -LSB- Gray -RSB-,'' Rodriguez said. Another individual is arrested and a wagon is requested. Before the wagon leaves, there is ``some communication'' with Gray, according to Rodriguez. They then travel to the police cepartment/s western district with Gray and the other suspect in the wagon. The two are separated by a metal barrier and the two had no physical contact. 9:24:32 a.m.. A medic is called. --. An autopsy on Gray's body was done on Monday, according to Rodriguez. He said there was no evidence that force was used against Gray, nor did any officers describe using any force against him. ``When Mr. Gray was placed inside that van, he was able to talk, he was upset, and when Mr. gray was taken out of that van he could not talk and he could not breath,'' Rodriguez said. ``I know Mr. Gray suffered a very traumatic injury, but I don't know if it happened prior to him getting into the van or while he was in the van.''
( CNN ) Sunday's announcement that Corinthian Colleges Inc. would shut down all of its remaining 28 campuses is a positive development in a long struggle to hold for-profit colleges accountable. Corinthian, which once enrolled more than 70,000 students, is one of the worst of the ``predator colleges'' -- schools that offer dubious degrees, saddle students with high amounts of debt and gobble up tens of billions of dollars in federal money every year. Many of these schools are for-profit career colleges that operate mostly online. It's no wonder that Corinthian is doing this after the U.S. Department of Education curtailed its access to federal student aid last summer. There are about 1.3 million students enrolled in for-profit colleges, many of which have questionable track records, and their students need help transitioning into legitimate postsecondary schools. With Uncle Sam's student loan debt sheet topping $ 1 trillion, we literally can't afford to continue funding for-profit colleges -- which reportedly get 86 % of their funding from federal student loan money. For those not familiar with the for-profit college fiasco, here's the whole story in one telling statistic : While for-profit colleges enroll only 13 % of the nation's college students, such colleges account for nearly half of all student loan defaults, according to Department of Education statistics. For comparison's sake, the default rate of for-profit college students is worse than the default rate of the worst subprime borrowers during the financial crisis. How do these colleges operate ? It's deviously simple : Convince low-income students into borrowing tens of thousands of dollars through easy federal student loans, keep costs low through online classes and part-time professors, and watch the money roll in. The aggressive tactics of these colleges boggle the mind. Recruiters are told to make 100 phone calls and leave 100 messages a day, according to a ProPublica investigation. I can personally attest to the aggressive tactics. My phone number was accidentally placed on a call list for a for-profit college recently, and I received so many calls per day that I had to ask my wireless carrier to block the phone number. Stopping the exploitation of students isn't easy. The for-profit college business is a multibillion-dollar industry. The CEOs of these companies make millions of dollars a year, employ an army of lobbyists and donate money to both political parties. But the past two months brought a new twist to the crisis. Hundreds of graduates of the now-defunct Corinthian joined a ``debt strike,'' publicly declaring their refusal to pay back their loans. In response, Education Department Secretary Arne Duncan signaled a willingness to forgive loans of Corinthian graduates who have crushing debt and no job prospects. Now that Corinthian is finally shutting down, we must finish the job. The remaining for-profit colleges should be closed. Any student not gainfully employed or transferred to a reputable college within three years should be considered a victim, and their debts should be forgiven. Yes, ``victim'' is the right word. If these degrees actually helped people get jobs, we should be celebrating them. But according to a jaw-dropping report by the Education Department, the average graduate of an online for-profit college makes less than a high school dropout. Not the equivalent of a high school dropout. Less than a high school dropout. The real-life misery caused by predatory colleges is painful to hear about. One Corinthian graduate has $ 37,000 in debt for his computer science degree, but he can't even get a job at Best Buy, according to Slate. Another graduate, $ 33,000 in debt, has a medical assisting degree, but she gave up on finding employment in her field. She waits tables now, The Chronicle of Higher Education says. I can already hear your next question. If for-profit colleges are this terrible, are they at least cheaper ? No. In fact, their cost is reportedly around 60 % higher than a comparable degree from a public college. What's even more frustrating is that we've known about the shenanigans of these predator colleges for years. A 2011 report by the Government Accountability Office found widespread rule breaking by the largest for-profit colleges -- everything from accepting fictitious high-school diplomas to encouraging plagiarism and cheating. In one example, an undercover federal investigator posing as a student was told by a professor, ``It's not hard to get a 100 % on the second try ; just jot down the correct answers and take the quiz again,'' according to The New York Times. In 2013, Career Education Corp. paid $ 10 million to settle charges by the state of New York regarding phony job-placement claims. All told, no fewer than 36 state attorneys general were investigating for-profit colleges in 2014. After selling off 95 of its campuses last year, Corinthian said on Sunday that it tried unsuccessfully to sell the remaining 28 campuses, blaming the failure on ``federal and state regulators seeking to impose financial penalties and conditions'' on potential buyers. You can't hide your bad behavior forever, and the questionable practices of many for-profit colleges are starting to catch up with them. Enrollment at the University of Phoenix -- the largest for-profit college in the United States -- has fallen by half, to about 213,000. We laid the smackdown on predatory lenders during the financial crisis, and it's time to do the same thing with for-profit colleges. To keep predator colleges from wrecking our faith in the college degree -- still the best pathway to a middle-class life -- we need to act now. For-profit colleges have flunked their final exam. Now it's up to their rich benefactor, Uncle Sam, to make sure they don't go back to school in the fall. Editor's Note : An earlier version of this article said the San Diego campus of the University of Phoenix had been banned from enrolling military veterans last year ; that issue has been resolved.
( CNN ) C-SPAN's live telecast of the White House Correspondents' Association dinner on Saturday night, hosted by Cecily Strong of ``Saturday Night Live,'' was not Strong's finest hour, though the entire affair seemed like five of C-SPAN's longest hours. Even so, there were some genuinely funny moments, although the ratio was low, and you had to be patient to get to them. But when you step back and look at the event as a whole, and appreciate what's really happening -- in terms of press freedoms and even a U.S. president willing and able to poke fun at himself as well as others -- it's hard not to think of this particular Beltway-meets-showbiz event as a wonderfully American exercise in tolerance and good humor. That being said, it's a very tough room -- and not just because the Washington Hilton ballroom is so cavernous. More than 2,000 credentialed White House journalists and their mostly celebrity guests convened for the occasion. And convened, and convened, and convened, as time dragged on and dinner was served late. President Barack Obama, as Strong's warm-up act, didn't hit the podium until 10:20 p.m. ( Strong got her turn at 10:45. ). Obama, as in past years, came out strong -- a tough act to follow for any comedian. He had strong comedy lines and delivered them with timing that many stand-up comics would envy. Noting his lame-duck status, Obama said his advisers asked him if he had a bucket list. ``I have something that rhymes with bucket list,'' he claimed to have replied. Obama, noting the night's guest speaker, said, ``On `Saturday Night Live,' Cecily impersonates CNN anchor Brooke Baldwin.'' Then, after a brief but well-timed pause, he added, ``Which is surprising, because usually, the only people impersonating journalists on CNN are journalists on CNN.''. Obama was nailing his own punch lines frequently, and perfectly. Then, to up the ante on his time at the podium, he welcomed his ``anger translator'' -- a recurring character played by Keegan-Michael Key on Comedy Central's ``Key & Peele.'' It was a clever surprise, and the crowd reacted with surprising enthusiasm ( I wouldn't have presumed most of them knew of Key's character or his series ), though Key's jokes lost something in the translation, and didn't pack the punch of Obama's. But the bit ended with a great twist : Obama himself getting so worked up about a snowball being carried into Congress to denounce global warming that the President's ``anger translator'' had to calm Obama down instead. And then came Cecily Strong, with a sly opening line referring not only to her appearance as one of the few female guest speakers at the correspondents' dinner, but to the upcoming 2016 presidential election. ``Feels right,'' she said, ``to have a woman following President Obama.''. From there, the crowd seemed as tough as advertised, with ``oohs'' often as loud as laughter, as Strong went from one target to another. She even got ``oohs'' when her targets were outside the room, as when she said, noting how Obama has aged visibly in office, ``Your hair is so white now, it can talk back to the police.''. But the seemingly tepid response to Strong's routine may have been partly due to the late hour. She came on after not only the dinner service and Obama, but after scholarship awards, correspondent awards and tributes and other bits of official business. And her routine wasn't over until 11:08 p.m. -- making it a longer TV show than even the Emmys. Before the main event finally began, C-SPAN filled the time scanning the room with its cameras, but providing only ambient sound with very few identifying voice-overs or prerecorded features. Once in a while, you could see someone recognizable in the large, oddly eclectic crowd : Tea Leoni, Ivanka Trump, Larry Wilmore, Jane Pauley. For the most part, though, it was like playing a frustratingly difficult Beltway game of spot-the-face-in-the-crowd -- a sort of ``Who's Waldo ?''. And after a few hours watching a gaggle of people chat and eat, all I wanted to do was go home. And I was already home. But I stayed tuned, just so I could watch, and grade, the results. Final tally : Obama gets an A -, Keegan-Michael Key a C, Cecily Strong a B -, and the entire telecast and event an A + for democracy -- but a D as television.
( CNN ) The Hillary Clinton presidential campaign surely anticipated the coming wave of inquiries and criticism about conflicts of interest involving big foreign donors to charities run by the Clinton family -- questions set to get a thorough airing in a new book called ``Clinton Cash : The Untold Story of How and Why Foreign Governments and Businesses Helped Make Bill and Hillary Rich'' by Peter Schweizer, coming out May 5. My guess is that the issues raised by the book will prompt Team Clinton to put its candidate on the road, where she can continue holding loosely scheduled, informal meetings with ordinary Americans -- the sorts of people more concerned about local jobs than whether some foreign government or company paid a big speaking fee to Bill Clinton in hopes of getting special treatment by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. It's not that the alleged conflicts aren't potentially serious ; as I recently noted in these pages, they are. According to The Wall Street Journal, in 2014 the Clinton Foundation ``received money from the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Oman, among others. The donors included Canada's foreign affairs department, which is promoting the Keystone XL pipeline.''. That's the same Keystone XL pipeline from Canada that the State Department all but endorsed, concluding after a five-part analysis that ran to 17,000 pages that the project's environmental impact would be minimal. President Obama vetoed a bill that would have allowed the pipeline to be built, but it's legitimate to ask whether the donation from Canada directly or indirectly influenced the State Department's analysis. And several news outlets have reported that banks and other companies with business before the U.S. government were donors to the Clinton Global Initiative, a sister group that was spun off from the Clinton Foundation. CNN's Alexandra Jaffe wrote last month that ``listings for the Clinton Global Initiative's Annual Meeting found partnerships with at least six banks that were under investigation, involved in litigation or had been fined by government agencies and regulators at the time of the meeting. In every case, the bank in question was listed as a sponsor of the event even after the investigations were widely reported in the media.''. Those are serious matters -- but so are stubborn unemployment, troubled schools, high taxes and other problems that top the list of voters' concerns. A bank giving money to charity in hopes of buying leniency from the government is a cause for concern, but until and unless a smoking gun appears in the form of a clear exchange of money for favors, it becomes hard to say what, exactly, is wrong with donating cash to aid in a good cause like combating world hunger or helping to rebuild Haiti. Even among the banks fined for wrongdoing that contributed to Clinton charities, noted Jaffe, ``there's no indication the Clintons had any knowledge of the ongoing investigations into banks supporting the foundation's efforts.''. That doesn't leave much room for outrage. A more serious critique of the Clinton foundations is that they have been an administrative and financial quagmire from their origins, running deficits, expanding uncontrollably and cutting deals that not only raise ethical questions but cast the family's management skill in a less-than-flattering light. In a well-known case of deception, a con man named Raffaello Follieri charmed his way into the foundation's good graces, earning public praise from Bill Clinton for promising $ 50 million to the Clinton Global Initiative -- money that never materialized. A more serious problem developed internally, with staff members fighting over the direction and management of the charities. In 2007 and 2008, the foundation ran a $ 40 million deficit and in 2012 had an $ 8 million deficit. So we already knew that the Clintons' charities suffered from poor management and took money from companies and governments that were clearly trying to curry favor. It's distasteful, but by now it's not news. Unless the forthcoming book unveils some blockbuster new information, questions about the Clintons' charities is likely to wind up on the same political shelf on which voters seem to have parked concerns about Hillary Clinton's use of private emails to conduct State Department business. According to a recent poll by the rightward-leaning Rasmussen -- taken after the email issue was splashed all over the news -- a survey of voters likely to vote in 2016 found that 57 % expect Clinton to win the presidency. No wonder Clinton seemed positively unconcerned about the forthcoming book. ``We're back into the political scene, and therefore we will be subjected to all kinds of distractions and I'm ready for it,'' she said in New Hampshire. Calling extensive exposure of conflicts of interest ``distractions'' suggests that Clinton knows what the polls suggest : that in a nation still struggling to emerge from a long recession, voters will likely judge her on something other than the efficiency and ethics of her charities.
Miami ( CNN ) Inside a plane at Miami International Airport, baggage handlers are going on a shopping spree with passengers' bags. What they don't know is that they are being recorded on a hidden camera. The Miami-Dade Police Department set up the camera as part of an ongoing police investigation into luggage thefts by the very airport workers who are supposed to get bags safely onto planes. Email your story ideas and tips to CNNtips@cnn.com. ``It's a problem we all face,'' said police Lt. Pete Estis. ``We will continue to be proactive until we can see that the claims of pilfering through luggage will actually decrease.''. Miami Aviation Director Emilio T. González said the insider theft cases ``are indeed the exception among the thousands of decent, hardworking employees at MIA, and they have been prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law for their crimes.''. And these insider thefts just don't happen in Miami. A CNN analysis of passenger property loss claims filed with the TSA from 2010 to 2014 shows 30,621 claims of missing valuables, mostly packed in checked luggage. The rest occurred at security checkpoints. Total property loss claimed : $ 2.5 million. John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York topped the list of airports with the most claims of thefts from luggage, followed by Los Angeles International, Orlando International and Miami International, according to the data. The problem has been so serious at JFK that in 2013, El Al Airlines set up a hidden camera in a baggage hold. The camera showed baggage handlers stealing items on flights bound for Israel, including a $ 5,000 Seiko watch, iPhones, an iPad, cameras, gold rings and cash. Six of those arrested pleaded guilty to possession of stolen property or petty larceny and the seventh suspect's case was sealed, according to the Queens District Attorney's Office. The high-profile case, though, didn't stop the thefts. Two more baggage handlers at JFK were arrested in 2014 after authorities said they stole two designer handbags from a suitcase, and then tried to sell them on eBay. Then, in December, seven more JFK baggage handlers were charged with stealing valuables from checked luggage. The items were stolen from suitcases of passengers traveling to or from Hawaii, Japan, Johannesburg, London, Bangkok, Dubai, Milan and various U.S. cities. In Miami, which aggressively goes after luggage thieves, police have arrested 31 baggage handlers and ramp workers since 2012, including six so far this year. Police set up a hidden camera inside the belly of a plane last year and caught baggage handlers rifling through luggage and stealing various items. Another hidden camera caught a baggage handler rummaging through bags in a secure luggage room inside the airport while a security guard looked the other way. ``Insider threat is very scary for us in law enforcement, and certainly someone taking somebody's cell phone, iPad, computer -- what's next ?'' Estis said. A CNN investigation earlier this year found that Miami and Orlando are the only two major airports in the country that require employees to be screened through metal detectors. Miami even checks employees when they leave work to go into the main terminal. But that apparently hasn't stopped the luggage thieves. ``As far as being able to get the property off the airfield, that's a great question,'' Estis said. ``We have theories.''. In Los Angeles, police last year executed search warrants on 25 locations after getting complaints about thefts in two terminals. Among the valuables found were computers, watches, jewelry and cameras and designer bags. Sixteen airport workers were fired. ``We cut theft in those two terminals by 60 % because of doing that aggressive investigative work,'' said Patrick Gannon, police chief of Los Angeles International Airport. Luggage theft could definitely lead to more serious problems, he said. ``I absolutely think that if we don't pay attention to the small things that happen around here, that it could lead to much larger things. So there is, I believe, a connection between baggage theft and terrorism,'' Gannon said. Even the TSA has had problem employees. Since 2002, the agency has fired 513 officers for theft. It employs about 50,000 officers today, and last year screened more than 443 million checked bags and nearly 1.7 billion carry-ons. DA : Guns smuggled on planes by Delta employee `egregious' security breach. Luggage theft isn't confined to airport workers. Outsiders have been caught on surveillance cameras stealing luggage from carousels. CNN contacted airports around the country and found while the total thefts from carousels are relatively low, it continues to be a problem. For example, Seattle reported 214 luggage thefts from carousels and other airport locations last year, 200 in Las Vegas, 36 in Atlanta, 35 in Phoenix, 15 at Ronald Reagan Washington National, 14 at Dulles International and 10 at Chicago's O'Hare Airport. Odd TSA finds. CNN's Harmeet Kaur and Yasmin Khorram contributed to this report.
Moscow ( CNN ) Never mind. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has backed out of next month's visit to Moscow for World War II anniversary celebrations, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday. ``We were informed of the decision via diplomatic channels,'' Peskov said. ``The decision is connected with North Korean domestic affairs.''. The visit was highly anticipated because it would have marked Kim's first official foreign trip since inheriting the leadership of North Korea in late 2011. He was to have met with Russian President Vladimir Putin as part of the May visit to coincide with Victory Day, marking the 70th anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany in World War II. Kim also could have had the chance to rub elbows with the heads of about 30 other governments, including the leaders of China, Cuba, India, Germany, Vietnam and Venezuela. This number represents about half the world leaders that Russia has said it invited to the celebrations. Kim's trip had been anticipated since late December, when Russian state media reported that Moscow had extended an invitation. There was no further explanation, from Moscow or Pyongyang, as to why he wouldn't head west. Still, North Korea has a number of issues it's been wrestling with for years. They include widespread poverty, its longstanding spat with neighboring South Korea and the United States, as well as its international isolation largely due to its controversial nuclear program. And news about Kim's non-visit comes a day after South Korean intelligence agents told lawmakers that Kim is ruling with an iron fist, having ordered the execution of about 15 senior officials so far this year. CNN can not independently confirm the executions detailed by Shin Kyung-min, a lawmaker with the New Politics Alliance for Democracy who attended the closed briefing. And the nature of the intelligence supporting the allegations was not immediately clear. That said, North Korea is one of the most closed societies in the world. And there's little doubt that Kim is very much in charge. According to Shin, intelligence officials say the North Korean leader is ruling in an impromptu manner and does not countenance excuses or any views that vary with his own. CNN's Madison Park and Alla Eshchenko contributed to this report. CNN's Matthew Chance reported from Moscow, and CNN's Ed Payne and Greg Botelho wrote this story from Atlanta.
( CNN ) The man who beat serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer to death inside a Wisconsin prison says he did it because of Dahmer's creepy sense of humor -- which included turning prison food into fake limbs covered with ketchup to resemble blood, the New York Post reports. Christopher Scarver, who was sentenced to two life terms in prison for killing Dahmer and another man at Columbia Correctional Institution in 1994, said the confessed cannibal would leave the fake limbs around the prison where others would find them. ``He crossed the line with some people -- prisoners, prison staff,'' the newspaper quoted Scarver as saying. ``Some people who are in prison are repentant -- but he was not one of them.''. In a separate story, the Post quotes Dahmer's former prison minister as saying the convict would make jokes about this cannibalistic past. ``If he saw a guard that was nervous and standing near enough to hear him, he would say,' I bite,''' the newspaper quoted the pastor, Roy Ratcliff, as saying. ``Usually the guard would jump away and that would make Jeff laugh.''. ``He sort of played with his persona to exaggerate it and make people more fearful,'' Ratcliff said. ``This was just his way -- a morbid humor to deal with his hopeless situation.''. Scarver was convicted of killing Dahmer on November 28, 1994. He told the Post that he killed Dahmer and another inmate, Jesse Anderson, after an altercation while they were together unsupervised on a work detail. Scarver said he kept a newspaper article detailing Dahmer's crimes, which included killing 17 men and boys between 1978 and 1991, having sex with corpses, keeping some of the body parts and eating others. Just before he killed Dahmer, Scarver said, he confronted him with the clipping. ``I asked him if he did those things'cause I was fiercely disgusted. He was shocked. Yes, he was,'' the Post quoted Scarver as saying. Scarver said he hit Dahmer twice in the head with a metal bar from a weight room. He then killed Anderson, who was working in a different room.
Shanghai, China ( CNN ) Volvo says it will begin exporting vehicles made in a factory in southwest China to the United States next month, the first time Chinese-built passenger cars will roll into American showrooms. Parent company Geely Automobile, which bought Volvo in 2010, is seeking to prove that a Chinese company can manage a global auto brand. Geely's gambit will be watched to see if it paves the way for other Chinese car manufacturers to crack developed markets. CEO Håkan Samuelsson said Volvo planned to sell 1,500 Chinese-made S60 Inscription sedans in 2015 and 5,000 annually in subsequent years. For many U.S. consumers, China is still more closely linked with cheap clothing and electronics than luxury vehicles, but Samuelsson downplayed any concerns about quality. ``We don't highlight where the vehicle is built but we don't keep it a secret. We sell them as Volvos and we know they are exactly the same in quality no matter where they are produced,'' he told CNN. The car will be one of four models produced in a manufacturing plant in Chengdu that opened in 2013. But given that Volvo's brand is staked on its reputation for safety, analysts said the company will have to tread carefully. ``They have a strong enough reputation no matter where they're made. They will have to make sure they don't ruin that perception with any quality issues,'' said Raymond Tsang, a Shanghai-based partner at consultants Bain & Company. China surpassed the U.S. as the largest market for car sales globally in 2009, and most major automakers build cars in China. But until now those cars have been sold almost exclusively in China. Chinese car manufacturers like Geely and its rival Great Wall Motor do export their models to countries in Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. But none have so far dared tackle developed markets like the U.S. and Western Europe. Geely chairman Li Shufu said he hoped the company would eventually become a global car brand, but said there were no current plans to begin export its home-grown brand to U.S. showrooms. ``We have the ambition, yes ; determination yes, but I'm also -LSB- a -RSB- very realistic person,'' he said. Industry analysts say it's unlikely we will see Chinese car makers shake up the U.S. car market in the same way Japanese and South Korean manufacturers did decades earlier, at least in the near future. ``Hyundai and Toyota are now extremely successful but it took them decades to move away from being perceived as lower end and lower quality than U.S. cars,'' said Tsang. ``And now the market is even more competitive, especially for entry level models.''. READ MORE : China wants eyes on cars not models at Shanghai Auto Show.
Shanghai, China ( CNN ) With a well-paid job in finance and his own apartment, Li Lifei is living the Chinese dream. But there's one missing ingredient -- his own car. The 26-year old has his eye on a Volkswagen Tiguan but Shanghai, like many large Chinese cities, rations license plates as it looks for a solution to its gridlocked roads and polluted skies. To register for a license plate auction, prospective car buyers like Li must put down a deposit in exchange for disc containing software they can use to bid online. The auctions take place once a month on a Saturday morning. ``I've been trying for six months with no success,'' Li told CNN. To boost his chances, Li upgraded the speed of his Internet connection from 10 to 50 mbps but to no avail. Each month there are around 10,000 license plates available. At the most recent auction on Saturday, Li said the final price was 80,600 yuan ( $ 13,000 ) -- around three times the price of a cheap Chinese car and a third of what Li plans to spend on his SUV. It's possible to get a temporary license, but that has to be renewed every month, and Li says he doesn't want to use a huangniu, or middleman, some of whom employ hundreds of bidders to obtain the coveted registration. ``I know people who've been trying for more than a year,'' he said. Another option would be to buy a hybrid vehicle that automatically qualifies for a license plate -- a selling point not lost on the car manufacturers showing their latest models and concepts at the Shanghai Auto Show this week. Toyota, Volkswagen and Volvo all launched gasoline-electric hybrids for the Chinese market at the show, while Chinese manufacturer BYD has been an early pioneer of electric and hybrid cars. ``The infrastructure ( charging stations ) for electric vehicles is not quite there yet but that's the advantage of a hybrid -- you can have both,'' said Volvo CEO Hakan Samuelsson. But Chinese drivers haven't wholeheartedly embraced the concept. Even though China overtook the United States as the world's largest car market in 2009, sales of electric and hybrid vehicles, while increasing quickly, still lag behind the U.S., where more than 100,000 were sold last year. And it's thought many are sold to local authorities and state industries, which are responding to central government directives. Few Chinese have American-style garages where the vehicles can be charged overnight. Li said he thought it would be inconvenient. ``I don't want a hybrid car. I thought maybe a Tesla but it's too expensive,'' he said, referring to the hyper luxury electric sports car developed by Elon Musk that has seen weak sales in China. For others, the hassles of buying and owning a car have become too much and some affluent city dwellers are spurning cars. Shanghai resident Lei Gu, 35, learned to drive as a student and Microsoft employee in Seattle and loved driving her compact Geo on the open U.S. roads. But when she returned to China nine years ago, she chose not to purchase a car. ``I used to love driving but I don't think I could drive here even if I wanted to. ``Even though we have traffic rules, people don't follow them. I can barely cross the street.''. She's also put off by the congested traffic and the high cost of parking. If Shanghai's extensive subway system doesn't take her where she wants to go, she uses a popular Uber-like taxi app -- or rents a car. She's not alone. A recent report by consultants Bain & Company suggested that even though China's love affair with the car began late, it may already be souring. Of 2,137 people it surveyed, some 40 % said cars were losing their appeal as a status symbol. Gu says luxury cars like BMWs and Mercedes are still an important way to ``show face'' among many of her friends. ``If you've been working for 10 years and don't have a car, people might wonder if you have financial problems,'' she said. But she prefers to spend her money on other things like traveling abroad. ``I do care about face but there are other ways to show it.''
( CNN ) Chile's Calbuco Volcano erupted again Thursday, marking the third time since last week, the National Service of Geology and Mining said. Gregorio Billikopf lives across Lake Llanquihue from the volcano has been photographing and videotaping the three eruptions and described Thursday's event as spectacular but not as severe as the two prior ones. ``There is still smoke on and off, but nothing so dramatic ( as before ),'' said Billikopf, a retired university adviser on agricultural issues. ``On a good day I can see about eight volcanoes. ``I understand that the rain that was announced for today would have been a disaster,'' he added. He lives in a rainy part of Chile, which he described as like a Garden of Eden. The explosion produced an extensive plume, but it was also described as smaller than the eruptions on April 22 and April 23, according to CNN Chile. Deputy Interior Minister Mahmud Aleuy said about 1,500 people were evacuated, and security measures will continue as ``contingency plans are operating,'' CNN Chile reported Thursday. For the past several days, the geology agency has maintained there was a possibility of a third eruption as part of steadily declining seismic activity in the area. A 20-kilometer ( 12-mile ) exclusion zone has been established around the crater, and Chilean authorities have been keeping residents away from that zone. Last week, military and police forces helped evacuate more than 4,400 residents, the Interior Ministry said then. The seismic event is sure to add to the volume of ash already spewed since the first eruption. Ash spread to Argentina in the second eruption, which occurred a day after the first. Evacuations in the region involved not only people but also animals. The volcanic debris has landed and piled up in some places to a depth of almost 2 feet, the Ministry of Interior and Public Safety said. New advisories say airborne ash could reach an altitude of 12,000 feet. There was no immediate information on the strength of the third eruption, but government officials have said the second, spectacular nighttime eruption was stronger than the first one. Last week in Ensenada, houses, trees and even sheep were blanketed gray with ash. People were removing salmon -- a staple of the local economy -- because of fears of contamination from ash and lava. Trucks were used to evacuate farm animals and pets. Authorities last week issued a red alert for the popular tourist towns of Puerto Montt and Puerto Varas in southern Chile. Last week, people were being evacuated to Puerto Montt on 22 buses and military trucks, the Interior Ministry said. Officials said that volcanic flows from Calbuco caused rising water levels in the Río Blanco. The first eruption set off a bit of a panic in the region. ``At the beginning, it was small, and later, the cloud grew. And later, there was a huge cloud over you and true terror starts,'' a Puerto Montt resident said. Another person said : ``It was impressive to see an enormous mushroom cloud, with the immense force of the volcano, and to see the ashes. At that point, there was a lot of panic, lots of chaos, traffic jams, people going to supermarkets, everyone looking for water, trying to take out money from the ATMs.''. Magma expanse under Yellowstone supervolcano more vast than thought. The eruption is a first for many in the region. The last major eruption was in 1962. There was a minor eruption in 1972. Calbuco also belched out a bit of gas and smoke in 1996. CNN's Shasta Darlington contributed from Sao Paolo, Brazil. CNN's Michael Pearson also contributed to this report.
( CNN ) About 20 hours after the Boston Marathon started Monday, many of the cheering crowds had dispersed and the streets were cleared. But one man, despite the odds against him, crossed the finish line. Venezuelan native Maickel Melamed, who is battling muscular dystrophy, completed the 26.2 miles just before 5 a.m. Tuesday. A group of energized fans rallied for the 39-year-old as he walked down Boylston Street in the pouring rain with volunteers from his foundation, Vamos. He was the last participant to complete the race, CNN affiliate WCVB-TV reported. Friends who were waiting for Melamed to cross the finish line said the university professor and motivational speaker is dedicated and motivated. ``He wants to show that life is great, no matter how many problems you can have,'' friend Perla Sananes said. Melamed was born with muscular dystrophy, which causes progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass throughout the body. As the disease progresses, people with the condition have difficulty doing physical activities like running and walking. Melamed has completed marathons in Chicago, New York, Berlin and Tokyo. Boston has a special place in his heart because his parents brought him to the city as a baby, WCVB-TV said. His perseverance was celebrated by crowds at the marathon finish line Tuesday morning, and also by fans online. Melamed is one of about 30,000 participants who raced in this year's marathon, which comes less than two weeks after a jury found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty of all 30 charges related to the 2013 Boston bombings. On social media Monday, spectators cheered for runners and the city, calling the marathon a symbol of strength and unity.
( CNN ) For the fifth year in a row in 2014, ambush attacks on police officers were the No. 1 cause of felonious deaths of law enforcement officers in the line of duty. Nevertheless, Google continues to market a smartphone application that lets lawbreakers pinpoint the location of police officers in the field. Google's executives won't even discuss the subject with organizations representing law enforcement. Google's popular real-time traffic app, Waze, uses GPS navigation and crowdsourcing to alert users to traffic jams, automobile accidents, stalled cars, and through its ``traffic cop'' feature, the presence of law enforcement. Most people undoubtedly use Waze's police-finding feature to avoid traffic tickets, but the app poses an enormous risk to deputies and police officers. In the days before he assassinated New York police officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu at point blank range while they sat in their patrol car last December, Ismaaiyl Brinsley is known to have used the Waze application to monitor the movements of police officers. The killer identified the location of police on his own Waze account and even posted screen captures to Instagram. While Google ( which acquired Waze in 2013 for a reported $ 1.1 billion ) claims the app ``is all about contributing to the `common good' out there on the road,'' the risks far outweigh the potential benefits. Every day, thousands of police officers and deputies enforce traffic laws, execute arrest and search warrants, investigate domestic violence complaints and perform countless tasks that are needed to keep our neighborhoods safe and remove criminals from the streets. It takes just a couple of clicks on Waze's ``traffic cop'' icon to identify their locations and indicate whether -- in the opinion of the anonymous user -- the officer is ``visible'' or ``invisible.'' At that moment, the officer or deputy becomes an identifiable target whose whereabouts are available to any one of Waze's 50 million users worldwide. Social media has made enormous contributions to law enforcement as a ``force multiplier'' that lets citizens help police protect our communities. As we have seen with the emergence of crimes like identity theft, however, technology has the potential for evil as well as good. In the case of Waze, we are confronted with a tool that can be lethal to police officers and deputies, whose roles in society are to protect our citizens and enforce the laws that keep our communities safe. Google, whose stated mission is ``to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful,'' is now marketing an app with the potential to obstruct law enforcement and put the lives of police officers and deputies at risk. Even the more benign uses of Waze's ``traffic cop'' feature are concerning. In 2013, 10,076 people were killed in alcohol-related automobile accidents. And in 2011, 9,944 people lost their lives in speed-related fatal crashes. Is the highest, best use of Google's geo-mapping and crowdsourcing capabilities to help drunk drivers avoid checkpoints and give speeders assistance in evading speed limits ?. It's not just the speeders and drunk drivers who have access to the locations of police officers through Google's technology. Perpetrators of domestic violence can use it to find out about the presence of law enforcement in a spouse's neighborhood ; gang members, narcotics dealers, even those intent on perpetrating an act of terror, all have access to Waze's ``traffic cop'' feature. Google has built a solid reputation as a good corporate neighbor, tying for first place in a 2013 study by the Reputation Institute measuring companies' reputations for corporate social responsibility. The company makes much of its compliance with legal, moral and ethical obligations as a good corporate neighbor. But when it comes to Waze, Google has gone into a defensive crouch. The company's executives flat out refused to discuss the subject with representatives of the National Sheriffs' Association, an organization representing more than 3,000 sheriff's offices across the United States. The refusal of Google's executives to even dignify our concerns by meeting with us offends our conscience. If Google's real objective is the ``common good out there on the road,'' it will work with us to ensure the safety of both motorists and police officers. The goals are not mutually exclusive : we can have both.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Andrew Lesnie, the Oscar-winning cinematographer who spent more than a decade collaborating with director Peter Jackson on the six ``Lord of the Rings ``and ``Hobbit'' films, has died. He was 59. The Sydney native, who also worked with New Zealander Jackson on the remake of ``King Kong'' ( 2005 ) and ``The Lovely Bones'' ( 2009 ), suffered a heart attack Monday. Said a spokesman from the Australian Cinematographers Society : ``We have been advised of the sudden death of Andrew,'' adding that his family would provide an official statement later. Known for balancing technology with artistic considerations, Lesnie also shot ``Rise of the Planet of the Apes'' ( 2011 ), directed by Rupert Wyatt. The cinematographer recently polished off The Water Diviner, the directorial debut of Russell Crowe, another New Zealand native. That movie opened Friday in U.S. theaters. Said Crowe on Twitter : ``Devastating news from home. The master of the light, genius Andrew Lesnie has passed on.''. Lesnie won his Oscar for his work on the first of the fabled ``Lord of the Rings'' trilogy, ``The Fellowship of the Ring'' ( 2001 ). His knack for getting the right feel of author J.R.R. Tolkien's most foreboding locales was remarkable. For the inaugural ``Lord of the Rings'' film, Jackson reached out to Lesnie after seeing his work on ``Babe'' ( 1995 ) and its 1998 sequel. Those Australian films, revolving around a pig and other animals, featured impressive visual effects and proved to be big hits at the worldwide box office. ``I'd never worked with him or even met him before, but he'd shot the Babe films and I thought they looked amazing, the way he'd used backlight and the sun and natural light to create a very magical effect,'' Jackson said in a 2004 interview. ``And Babe had that larger-than-life feel about it that I wanted. ``So when we began looking for DPs in early 1999, I first decided to get either an Australian or New Zealand DP, as they'd be used to the way we make films,'' Jackson continued. ``Every country is slightly different in that way, and I immediately thought of Andrew.''. Lesnie's impressive body of work also includes the post-apocalyptic science fiction film ``I Am Legend'' ( 2007 ), directed by Francis Lawrence and starring Will Smith ; ``The Last Airbender'' ( 2010 ), from M. Night Shyamalan ; and Healing ( 2014 ), helmed by Craig Monahan. He was inducted into the Australian Cinematographers Society Hall of Fame in 2002. Lesnie studied film and television at TAFE ( a provider of vocational education ) and at the Australian Film, Television and Radio School before joining the Australian Broadcasting Corp. as a camera assistant. He honed his craft on low-budget short films and music videos and assisted on documentaries, features and commercials. He then spent several months on ``Wonder World,'' a children's afternoon magazine-style show. People we've lost in 2015. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Lois Lilienstein, co-star of ``Sharon, Lois & Bram's Elephant Show'' -- the Canadian preschool show that ran on Nickelodeon during the early 1990s -- has died, aged 78. Her son, David Lilienstein, told CBC News that his mother died in Toronto on Wednesday night from a rare form of cancer first diagnosed last October. ``She knew it was happening, she was at peace with it, and she died very peacefully and not in pain,'' he told the Canadian broadcaster. Liz Smith at 92. Lilienstein was born in Chicago in 1936 and moved to Toronto in 1996 with her son and her husband, Ernest. She joined Sharon Hampson and Bram Morrison to launch their singing trio in 1978. The TV show ``Sharon, Lois & Bram's Elephant Show'' ran on CBC in Canada from 1984 to 1989, before continuing in reruns on Nickelodeon stateside until 1995. The 30 most popular film producers in Hollywood. Sally Catto, general manager, programming at CBC Television, paid tribute to Lilienstein for her contribution to Canadian kids TV. ``Sharon, Lois and Bram got their start at CBC back in the'80s with the Elephant Show, and they went on to become icons to children all across North America through various programs and specials. Lois will be fondly remembered by her many friends at CBC,'' Catto told The Hollywood Reporter. `Ghostbusters' budget cut. The Canadian variety show was best known for songs like ``Skinnamarink'' and ``Peanut Butter.'' Lilienstein left the Sharon, Lois & Bram performance trio in 2000. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) Bahamian R&B singer Johnny Kemp, best known for the 1988 party anthem ``Just Got Paid,'' died this week in Jamaica. The singer is believed to have drowned at a beach in Montego Bay on Thursday, the Jamaica Constabulatory Force said in a press release. The statement listed his age as 54, but other reports say he was 55. ``Passersby saw Kemp's body floating faced down in the water'' around 9:50 a.m., the statement said. ``Police were summoned and the body removed to the morgue.''. Kemp was scheduled to perform on the Tom Joyner Foundation Fantastic Voyage Cruise, parent company Reach Media Inc. said in a statement. He had not boarded the ship. ``Just Got Paid'' was a No. 1 hit on the U.S. Billboard R&B chart and earned Kemp a Grammy nomination. Boy band `NSYNC covered the song in the 2000 album, ``No Strings Attached.''. Former `NSYNC member Chris Kirkpatrick was one of many entertainers who paid tribute to Kemp on social media. ``Thank you for the great music,'' he said in a tweet. Samuel L. Jackson and MC Hammer were among others who shared condolences, calling him a ``humble and kind spirit.''. People we've lost in 2015.
( CNN ) Percy Sledge, the R&B belter whose biggest hit, ``When a Man Loves a Woman,'' became a cornerstone of soul music, died Tuesday. He was 73. Sledge died in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, said Stephanie Price of the East Baton Rouge Parish Coroner's Office. Sledge died of natural causes, said East Baton Rouge Parish Coroner Dr. William Clark. He had been in hospice care for cancer, Clark added. In a career that started in the 1960s, Sledge had a number of hits, including ``Take Time to Know Her,'' ``Warm and Tender Love'' and ``It Tears Me Up'' among them. But his first and biggest hit, ``When a Man Loves a Woman,'' towered over them all. Over a mournful, slowly rising instrumental track provided by organist Spooner Oldham, drummer Roger Hawkins and guitarist Marlin Greene -- key musicians of what became the Muscle Shoals sound, heard on countless soul records -- Sledge crooned, pleaded and roared his way through the tune. It came directly from the heart : Originally called ``Why Did You Leave Me Baby,'' he'd written it about a former girlfriend, drawing from a tune that he used to sing to himself as a child. ``I hummed it all my life, even when I was picking and chopping cotton in the fields,'' the Alabama-born singer told the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. At the time, Sledge was working as a hospital orderly, picking up gigs at night with a group called the Esquires Combo. In a fit of generosity, he gave the songwriting credit for ``Woman'' to two of the Esquires, Calvin Lewis and Andrew Wright, who had helped him with a few chords. The song was recorded on February 17, 1966, in Sheffield, Alabama. Atlantic Records picked it up and wanted to redo the slightly out-of-tune horns, but the original version ended up being released. It hit No. 1 on May 28, 1966. ``Southern soul had at last entered the mainstream of pop in the unlikely guise of the ultimate make-out song,'' music historian Peter Guralnick wrote. Producer Jerry Wexler called it ``a holy love hymn.''. Sledge never saw a dime of songwriting royalties. He had some regrets about that, he told Blues and Soul magazine -- the song would have helped provide for his children -- but he accepted it. ``Worst decision I ever made. But I am not at all bitter. I figure if God wanted me to do what I did, and say what I did to tell those guys they could have the song, then I'll leave it that away,'' he told the magazine. ``When a Man Loves a Woman'' became a standard, covered many times -- Michael Bolton took it to No. 1 in 1991 -- and featured on several movie soundtracks. It was even the title of a 1994 film starring Andy Garcia and Meg Ryan. Sledge's version also returned to the charts, hitting the UK top 10 in 1987. Even with his other hits, he said, it all came back to ``When a Man Loves a Woman.''. ``The granddaddy to all of my songs. The boss of all of my songs. I have great respect for that song,'' he told Blues and Soul. ``Always will.''. Sledge was inducted into the Rock Hall in 2005. His death was followed two weeks later by that of another'60s soul legend, Ben E. King, who had an enduring hit in 1961 with ``Stand By Me.''. People we've lost in 2015. CNN's John Newsome contributed to this story.
( CNN ) Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel, welcome to parenthood. The celebrity couple announced the arrival of their son, Silas Randall Timberlake, in statements to People. ``Silas was the middle name of Timberlake's maternal grandfather Bill Bomar, who died in 2012, while Randall is the musician's own middle name, as well as his father's first,'' People reports. The couple announced the pregnancy in January, with an Instagram post. It is the first baby for both.
( CNN ) Have Mercy ! Lifetime has its follow-up to its ``Unauthorized Saved By the Bell'' TV movie : the network is now taking on Full House. The female-skewing cable network has greenlit ``The Unauthorized Full House Story'' ( working title ), The Hollywood Reporter has learned. In the same vein as its ``Saved By the Bell'' pic, Lifetime's Full House Story will look at the rise of the cast -- including John Stamos, Bob Saget and the Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen -- and explore the pressure they faced to balance idyllic family life on the show with the more complicated reality of their own lives outside the series. Additionally, it will look at the warm bond that grew between the cast as the show became one of America's most beloved family sitcoms. Casting will begin immediately. An air date for the ``Full House'' tell-all has yet to be determined. See more Broadcast TV's Returning Shows 2015-16. Ron McGee, who penned the ``Unauthorized Saved by the Bell Story,'' will write the ``Full House'' take. The telepic will be produced by the Bell team of Front Street Pictures and Ringaling Productions, with Harvey Kahn and Stephen Bulka also on board to exec produce. For Lifetime, the news comes after its two-hour Bell take fizzled on Labor Day 2014. Despite tons of build-up and excitement from diehard fans of the original comedy series, the Bell take drew only 1.6 million total viewers, with 1.1 million viewers among the 18-49 and 25-54 demographics. That pic was based on former star Dustin Diamond's Behind the Bell 2009 tell-all, with Dylan Everett starring as Mark-Paul Gosselaar and Sam Kindseth as Diamond. Full House aired on ABC from 1987 to 1995. Netflix this month revived the beloved family comedy as ``Fuller House,'' with original stars Candace Cameron-Bure ( D.J. ), her on-screen sister, Jodie Sweetin ( Stephanie ), and best friend Andrea Barber ( Kimmy ), in a 13-episode follow-up series. From its start as an unassuming family comedy in 1987 to its eventual wildly popular 192-episode run, ``Full House'' was ``the little sitcom that could.'' It made huge stars of its cast -- from Bob Saget and Dave Coulier, who were grinding away on the standup circuit, to John Stamos breaking hearts on General Hospital, and the Olsen twins. See the original story at The Hollywood Reporter's website. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) The powers of Marvel's all-star superheroes go a bit wobbly in ``Avengers : Age of Ultron.'' Faced with the daunting prospect of topping the surprise and excitement of 2012's The Avengers, the third highest-grossing film of all time, writer-director Joss Whedon mixes some brooding down-time in with the abundant spectacle. To be sure, series junkies will get their fix from the sheer massiveness of the exploits, but at least two of the big action scenes are lackluster, while the climax and resolution could have been worked out in more complex, less rote ways, so as to further increase intrigue and anticipation for ``Avengers : Infinity War Parts 1 and 2,'' already scheduled for release in May of 2018 and 2019, respectively. Not that any of this will matter much, since the pent-up excitement among the enormous international fan base is so intense that nothing will keep the summer's presumed biggest franchise blockbuster from soaring to and beyond the one-billion dollar threshold internationally. Hands-on producer Kevin Feige and his associates have built a cinematic empire quite unprecedented in Hollywood history, a veritable solar system of staggeringly profitable individual franchises unified by the overpowering collective force of the Avengers. So while sideline enterprises like the new ``Daredevil'' TV series continue to pop up, the company can be so confident in the enduring appeal of its theatrical mainstays that it recently published a release schedule for its remaining big-gun commercial titles from now through the end of the decade. At this point, no one would be willing to bet on when a sense of terminal deja vu might set in to bring it all to an end, and Comic-Con can plan its main events years ahead. In the meantime, the key points of interest surround how many surprises and twists can be wrung from a format and set of expectations that demand great fealty from core fans ; any significant deviations are taken as personal betrayals by the hardest-core geeks. Last summer, ``Guardians of the Galaxy'' showed that Marvel could play it a bit more fast and loose than it generally does, but the big-name franchises still seem sacrosanct. And so it is with ``Avengers : Age of Ultron,'' which at moments takes a peek down some shadowy side roads but ends up mostly zooming along the main highway to deliver what the audience wants rather than something even a little bit different. Picking up where last year's ``Captain America : Winter Soldier'' left off, the new film, without preamble, dives right in to show the Avengers dispatching the remnants of the nasty HYDRA organization in a hectically and indifferently staged forest combat scene that leaves Clint Barton/Hawkeye ( Jeremy Renner ) worse for wear while also introducing two new adversaries, twins Pietro and Wanda ( Aaron-Taylor Johnson and Elizabeth Olsen ). Victory allows for some passably amusing scenes of the heroes blowing off steam : The favorite party trick of Thor ( Chris Hemsworth ) is to challenge all comers to lift up his hammer ; Natasha/Black Widow ( Scarlett Johansson ) and Bruce Banner/The Hulk ( Mark Ruffalo ) pursue a little mating dance in which her amorous interest is predicated upon his retaining his human rather than superhero form ; and Tony Stark/Iron Man ( Robert Downey Jr. ) and Steve Rogers/Captain America ( Chris Evans ) take stock of the advances their old Nazi nemesis Strucker ( Thomas Kretschmann ) appears to be making in the artificial intelligence department, specifically with the most sophisticated humanoid ever devised, Ultron ( voiced with marvelous robotic nuance by James Spader ). What's behind Warner Bros.' risky move to release nine movies. Ultron is a cool and sophisticated creation ; what he lacks, of course, is a heart, which is what makes him such an imposing villain. A sleekly designed robot you might even call handsome, he makes an excellent intellectual and smart-ass sparring partner for Stark, but when he first appears, he's still on training wheels. However, he does recruit Pietro and Wanda to his cause, an easy matter since Stark killed their parents. He's not yet entirely ready to conquer the universe but, in their first skirmish with him, the Avengers are sufficiently outclassed to begin worrying. Could `Star Wars' open at $ 500 million ?. Licking their wounds at the ``safe house'' of Hawkeye's farm, the Avengers go into a funk. The impatient Thor quickly takes off ``to find answers,'' Bruce resists Natasha's desire to get something physical cooking between them ; Stark, lamenting that ``Ultron is tryng to tear us apart,'' consults with old cohort Nick Fury ( Samuel L. Jackson, briefly ), while Mad Men's Linda Cardellini, playing Hawkeye's stand-by-your-man wife, is stuck with the ( intentionally ? ) funniest line of dialogue in the film : ``You know I totally support your avenging.''. While some of his partners wallow in disarray, Captain America heads for Seoul, where the next evolutionary step is to emerge via a device called ``the cradle,'' which will hatch mass-produced android soldiers that will pave the way for Ultron's world domination. But a major chase through the city involving a runaway subway train falls flat due to basic conceptual silliness and poor action continuity. Of course, the Avengers ultimately get it together to do the kind of butt-kicking they're supposed to do, and a very welcome addition to the team comes in the form of the android called Vision. Red-faced and green-garbed, Vision is given a striking profile and overall presence by Paul Bettany ( heretofore limited in the Marvel world to vocal work as Stark's computerized butler J.A.R.V.I.S. ), and it can be hoped, if not assumed, that this most intriguing character will play an even more important role in the final two Avengers installments. `Galaxy Quest' TV series in the works. Ultimately, Whedon's efforts to invest the heroes with a degree of uncertainty and vulnerability comes off as half-baked, as such an effort can only go so far due to the nature of the material. After all, these are comic book characters defined by their double identities ; a third dimension is neither required nor perhaps even desired. If ending on a dramatic cliffhanger note had been desired, the elements were there for the taking ; including a semi-tragic component along with mystery about Ultron's ultimate fate would arguably have only further cranked up anticipation for the coming chapters. But, then, what does that matter when the automatic attendance of millions is assured ?. ``Avengers : Age of Ultron'' succeeds in the top priority of creating a worthy opponent for its superheroes and giving the latter a few new things to do, but this time the action scenes don't always measure up and some of the characters are left in a kind of dramatic no-man's - land. The returning series actors acquit themselves in the expected agreeable manner, while series newcomer Andy Serkis has a terrific couple of minutes as a tough but stressed South African criminal. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
( CNN ) The seventh installment of the ``Fast and Furious'' franchise,'' ``Furious 7'' is sure to draw fans curious about how the film handles the real-life death of co-star Paul Walker. But minus the off-screen tragedy, is ``Furious 7'' worth racing to the theater ? Here's what the critics are saying :. Peter Travers, Rolling Stone :'' `Furious 7' is the best F&F by far, two hours of pure pow fueled by dedication and passionate heart. This one sticks with you. The usual flaws -- plot bumps, muscle acting, tweet-length dialogue -- fade in the face of the camaraderie on and off screen. Finishing the film in Walker's honor clearly brought out the best in everyone. It's bittersweet seeing Walker in action again. But it's also a kick to watch him take the wheel or hang off a bus in Azerbaijan that happens to be hanging off a cliff. He feels at home.''. Chris Nashawaty, Entertainment Weekly : ``No one forks over 10 bucks to see one of these flicks for its logic. We go for the bananas demolition-derby mayhem. `Furious 7' delivers that with the direct visceral rush of an EpiPen. For two hours and change, we're treated to a high-octane orgy of some of the most exhilarating stunts ever put on film, including one showstopper where Walker balances on an overturned bus that's teetering on the edge of a cliff.''. Chris Ziegler, The Verge : ``It's entirely possible, of course, that my fandom has simply blinded me to `Furious 7's' greatness. The action sequences -- particularly Abu Dhabi, with the supercar leaping between buildings -- are legitimately phenomenal, and the scenes filmed after Walker's passing, in which his brothers stepped in for him, were never distracting or even noticeable without looking closely. Maybe I'm missing something.''. A.O. Scott, New York Times : ``The final moments, when Mr. Walker's longtime colleagues say their farewells while he still appears to be on screen with them, are both awkward and moving. They remind you what these movies have always been about, underneath all the noise and the bravado : the ferocity of friendship and the terrible speed of loss.''. Betsy Sharkey, Los Angeles Times : ``The action sequences -- from hand-to-hand combat to the crash and burn of cars -- are, as we've come to expect, not grounded in reality. The parkour-influenced high-rise stunts that everyone will be talking about are particularly affecting because a ) they feature the multimillion-dollar eye-candy of a jewel-encrusted limited-edition Lykan Hypersport and b ) they are amazing. All of the driving and skydiving fall into the never-try-this-at-home zone.''. Richard Lawson, Vanity Fair : ``The latest film, which opens Friday, can't help but take on some deeper meaning, as the death of main cast member Paul Walker, killed in a car accident in late 2013, looms large throughout. But it doesn't overwhelm -- Furious 7 is respectful, even solemn, when it needs to be, but is still, thank God, plenty of crazy fun.''
( CNN ) English actress Michelle Keegan has been named the sexiest woman in the world by British men's magazine FHM. The 27-year-old actress is best known for her roles on the BBC series ``Ordinary Lies'' and the long-running British soap opera ``Coronation Street.'' Her ``Coronation Street'' character Tina McIntyre was the show's first character to act as a surrogate, according to IMDB. Keegan is followed by reality television star and model Kendall Jenner, Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Lawrence, Sports Illustrated swimsuit cover girl Kate Upton and British television host Caroline Flack, who dated One Direction's Harry Styles for a few months. Sandra Bullock doesn't appear anywhere on FHM's list, even though People magazine named her the ``World's Most Beautiful Woman'' a week ago. The ``FHM 100 Sexiest Women in the World'' issue goes on sale Thursday, April 30.
( CNN ) A former U.S. Navy aircraft carrier that survived a Japanese torpedo strike and was a massive guinea pig for two atomic bomb blasts looks remarkably intact at the bottom of the Pacific, according to federal researchers who surveyed the wreck last month with an underwater drone. The USS Independence was scuttled in January 1951 during weapons testing near California's Farallon Islands. Although its location was confirmed by a survey in 2009, researchers from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration went looking for it again in March as part of a project to map about 300 wrecks that lie in and around the Gulf of the Farallones National Marine Sanctuary. ``After 64 years on the seafloor, Independence sits on the bottom as if ready to launch its planes,'' mission leader James Delgado, the maritime heritage director for NOAA's Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, said in a statement. Indeed, sonar images show what looks to be an airplane on one of the elevators that took planes from the Independence's hangar deck to its flight deck. The ship sits upright with a slight list to starboard, according to NOAA. NOAA's survey of the 623-foot-long, 11,000-ton carrier was conducted by the Echo Ranger, an 18.5-foot-long autonomous underwater vehicle provided by the Boeing Co. The Echo Ranger traveled 30 miles from its base in Half Moon Bay, California, and hovered 150 above the carrier, which lies 2,600 feet below the surface of the Pacific Ocean. The drone used a three-dimensional sonar system provided by Coda Octopus to get images that showed how well the warship has weathered 64 years in the deep. ``This ship fought a long, hard war in the Pacific and after the war was subjected to two atomic blasts that ripped through the ship. It is a reminder of the industrial might and skill of the `greatest generation' that sent not only this ship, but their loved ones to war,'' Delgado said in the statement. In its 20 years in the Navy, the ship played a role in some of the most important events of World War II, earning eight battle stars in the process, and the dawn of the nuclear age. Independence was seriously damaged by Japanese torpedo planes during the Battle of Tarawa in late 1943. The ship returned to California for repairs and made it back across the Pacific by July 1944 to participate in the Battle of the Sibuyan Sea and the sinking of one of the Japanese Imperial Navy's biggest warships, the battleship Musashi. Later, in the Battle of Cape Engano, planes from the Independence were involved in the sinking of four Japanese aircraft carriers. After the war, Independence became part of a fleet used to measure the effects of atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll in the Pacific on July 1, 1946. It sat just 560 yards from ground zero in the first test, a 23-kiloton air blast of a fission bomb similar to the one used over Nagasaki, Japan, a year earlier, according to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization. Twenty-four days later, Independence was 1,390 yards from the center of a second atomic blast -- also a 23-kiloton device but an underwater detonation. The ship was later brought back to California for nuclear decontamination before being sunk during the weapons training in 1951. NOAA said no signs of radioactive contamination were noted during the survey of the sunken carrier last month. The agency has no plans for further missions to the ship, according to the NOAA statement.
( CNN ) Think it's hard to redeem your miles for an airline award ticket ?. It depends on which airline rewards program you've chosen, which route you're flying and when you book your ticket, according to a new Consumer Reports study of 70 million passenger trips over the past two years. The magazine collected statistics comparing award-seat availability for the five biggest U.S. airlines on domestic routes. The top performer was Southwest Airlines, which offered the most award tickets, 11.9 million, and the highest percentage of award tickets -- 11.5 % of 103.1 million total passenger seats. ``The high number of award tickets is directly related to Southwest's unique combination of `Every Seat is an Award Seat,' no blackout dates, points that don't expire, and a route map that reaches more than 90 different destinations in the U.S. and beyond, making us the largest domestic carrier in the U.S.,'' Southwest spokesperson Thais Conway Hanson told CNN. ``Unlike other carriers, we also don't charge fees for close-in bookings or penalize you for canceling your trip if something else comes up.''. At the bottom of the list was JetBlue, which offered the lowest percentage of award seats and the fewest number of award tickets of the five biggest U.S. airlines : 892,000 one-way passenger tickets, or 4.5 % of its total 19.7 million U.S. seats. ( JetBlue only operates in 10 of the top 25 markets included in the study. ). Many JetBlue customers fly the airline only once or twice per year, making it hard to accumulate miles, an airline spokesman told the magazine. By not allowing miles to expire anymore, the airline says customers will be able to eventually redeem them. Delta Air Lines came in second place with 5.6 million U.S. award seats ; United Airlines ranked third with 5 million U.S. award tickets ; and American Airlines was fourth with 3.5 million U.S. award seats. What are the world's safest airlines ?. Remember that award tickets aren't actually free. The cost of miles is built into everything you buy that's earning you miles, and the airlines profit from you not using your miles at all. So it behooves consumers to book award travel carefully. On average, nearly 10 % of passengers on the five airlines analyzed by Consumer Reports flew on domestic award tickets, but some of them weren't getting the best value for their miles. While many U.S. fliers redeemed miles on American Airlines flights from Los Angeles to San Francisco, the cheapest average fare on that route was just over $ 100 -- not worth the 12,500 to 30,000 miles needed for an award ticket, Consumer Reports says. Better to use them on American Airlines' route between New York and San Francisco or Delta's route between Chicago and Los Angeles, which are generally more expensive than that Los Angeles-San Francisco route, according to Consumer Reports' calculations. While award-seat availability is important, it may not matter as much as passengers' overall satisfaction with an airline. Southwest had the highest customer satisfaction score ( 86 ), followed by JetBlue ( 85 ), Delta ( 70 ), American ( 66 ) and United ( 63 ). And don't forget the fees. Southwest doesn't charge any fees, while other airlines tack on fees for checking bags, booking by phone, changing plans and more.
( CNN ) Job one for newly appointed Attorney General Loretta Lynch is to create a muscular federal response to months of national unrest over controversial police killings like that of Freddie Gray, 25. Gray's death last week -- from a spinal cord injury he suffered while in police custody -- has touched off days of protests and rioting in Baltimore. Lynch's job won't be easy : As the nation's top law enforcement officer, she takes the reins of a Justice Department that has been walking a fine line between nudging local police departments in the direction of better community relations, and threatening legal action against departments where discrimination or brutality are out of control. But as events in Baltimore demonstrate, too many local departments aren't getting the message. Lynch will need to put down the carrots, pick up the stick and make clear that the Justice Department intends to crack down on police abuse by using one of its most potent weapons : the power to withhold federal funds from local departments. More about that in a moment. The first order of business will be to re-establish order in Baltimore, where the National Guard has been mobilized and a state of emergency declared. ``In the days ahead, I intend to work with leaders throughout Baltimore to ensure that we can protect the security and civil rights of all residents,'' Lynch said within hours of being sworn in on Monday. ``And I will bring the full resources of the Department of Justice to bear in protecting those under threat, investigating wrongdoing and securing an end to violence.''. A key part of that vow -- ``investigating wrongdoing'' -- must include a close look at the Baltimore Police Department, which has been the subject of bitter complaints of brutality. According to a major investigation by The Baltimore Sun published last fall, the city has paid out $ 5.7 million in court judgments or settlements to more than 100 people since 2011 in connection with allegations of brutality and/or violations of civil rights. ``Officers have battered dozens of residents who suffered broken bones -- jaws, noses, arms, legs, ankles -- head trauma, organ failure, and even death, coming during questionable arrests. Some residents were beaten while handcuffed ; others were thrown to the pavement,'' the Sun expose says. ``And in almost every case, prosecutors or judges dismissed the charges against the victims -- if charges were filed at all.''. That kind of behavior helped set the stage for the riots and looting we now see. Lynch has already launched a probe of the death of Freddie Gray, and the Justice Department is also investigating the recent videotaped police killing of Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina, where an officer has been arrested and charged with murder. As attorney general, Lynch has several tools with which to guide local law enforcement toward better behavior. A Justice Department program called Community Oriented Policing Services, launched in 2011, helps local departments implement best practices. The COPS program's effectiveness will surely come under question, since Baltimore was one of the eight departments participating in the voluntary program. Lynch can also apply the tougher approach of suing local departments and securing court-ordered reforms, a power conferred by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. The provision was a result of the 1991 videotaped police beating of Rodney King by Los Angeles cops and the riot that ensued when the officers were acquitted. The Obama administration has sued local departments 15 times -- more than either the Clinton or Bush administrations -- and has opened 11 more investigations of departments including those in Cleveland, Miami, and Ferguson, Missouri. But even those tough remedies may not be working, according to the Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization that focuses on criminal justice issues. ``Even where local leaders have embraced Washington's prescriptions, Justice Department officials have increasingly found themselves returning to grapple a second time with problems they thought they had fixed,'' writes reporter Simone Weichselbaum, noting that ``recurring problems have emerged in police departments in Miami, New Orleans and New Jersey, all of which had promised to carry out major changes in response to Justice Department investigations that turned up evidence of discriminatory policing.''. That leaves Lynch with a final, even tougher weapon : the power, under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, to deny federal law enforcement dollars to departments that engage in discriminatory practices. Lynch's predecessor as attorney general, Eric Holder, generally refrained from yanking funds, although in 2013 he did deny drug forfeiture money to the sheriff's office in Alamance County, North Carolina, claiming the department was unlawfully targeting Latinos for traffic stops. The sheriff of Alamance County sued the Justice Department and the case remains unresolved -- but it underscores the fact that Lynch has the power to press local departments, legally and financially, to curb local abuses. She should invoke the power where necessary and calm cities like Baltimore as the nation heads into what could be a long, hot summer of unrest.
( CNN ) It's a case of mistaken identity that reached international proportions. A 14-year-old girl was returned to Mexico from Texas on Wednesday after DNA tests showed she's not related to a woman who claimed the teenager was her daughter. Mexican federal police seized Alondra Luna Nuñez on Friday in the colonial city of Guanajuato, in central Mexico, believing she was the daughter of a Mexican national living in Houston. Several videos show the moment the girl was taken out of her middle school. In the footage, Alondra appears terrified, screaming at the top of her lungs and desperately trying to free herself from officers who are dragging her out of the building. After a struggle that lasted several minutes, the 14-year-old was put inside a federal police truck that sped away as witnesses, including the teenager's aunt, watched and recorded. According to Mexican authorities, the woman in Houston claimed in a 2007 petition that her daughter had been illegally taken to Mexico by her biological father without her consent. According to a statement from the Mexican Foreign Ministry, the woman had recently traveled to Guanajuato and seen her daughter there. ``Derived on this information.. and in compliance with international law.. the judge in charge of the case asked Interpol to intervene to make the girl appear at a hearing in which the court would confirm her identity,'' the statement said. But what happened next puzzled both Alondra's family and Mexican public opinion : The teenager was sent to the United States before her identify was positively confirmed. Once in Houston, and with questions about her identity being raised by the girl's biological parents, the Mexican Consulate in that city ordered DNA testing. The results confirmed that Alondra is not the daughter of the Houston woman. ``I will have my girl at home. We hope she's OK. We are taking action on the matter,'' Alondra's mother -- Susana Nuñez -- told Milenio Television. ``They stole my child.''
( CNN ) The best part of the Supreme Court oral arguments about marriage equality was when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg alluded to S&M. OK, she didn't actually mention S&M, but Ginsburg talked about how the institution of marriage has already changed from long ago, when it was ``a dominant and a subordinate relationship.''. ``Yes, it was marriage between a man and a woman, but the man decided where the couple would be domiciled,'' said Ginsburg. ``It was her obligation to follow him.''. Mary Bonauto, the attorney arguing on behalf of the four same-sex couples who petitioned the Supreme Court, said in response : ``That's correct.. For centuries we had and Europe had this coverture system where a woman's legal identity was absorbed into that of her husband and men and women had different prescribed legal roles. And again, because of equality and changing social circumstances, all of those gender differences in the rights and responsibilities of the married pair have been eliminated.''. Once upon a time, wives were the legal property of their husbands and ``marital rape'' was not only not a crime but not even a concept. To argue that the definition of marriage has not changed since then is either willfully ignorant or woefully naïve. Justice Anthony Kennedy, widely believed to be the key swing vote amidst a court otherwise generally evenly divided along ideological lines, at one point referred to ``the nobility and the sacredness of marriage.'' Which is true, if you ignore the history of its past and the reality of infidelity in the present. If anything, the nobility and sacredness of marriage need protecting from straight people. One downside to arguing that marriage has ``always been'' between a man and a woman is that, therefore, any problems in the institution of marriage are also plainly the responsibility of heterosexual couples, too. The one justice who didn't ask a question is Clarence Thomas, who, with one slight exception, has now gone over nine years without a single inquiry from the bench. It should be carefully noted here that Thomas is a black man married to a white woman. Anti-miscegenation laws banning interracial marriage were first introduced in 1661 in Maryland. That means that by 1967, when the Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of such laws, bans against interracial marriage had been officially part of the American ``definition'' of marriage for over 300 years. Just 20 years after the Supreme Court struck down the anti-miscegenation laws still in effect in 16 states, Clarence Thomas and his wife, Virginia, were married. James Braxton Peterson, director of Africana Studies at Lehigh University, has written, ``The fact that the Thomas' marriage required progressive Supreme Court action must in some way inform their sense of this moment.'' Or maybe not. Clarence Thomas didn't say one way or the other, though his remarks outside court and in dissenting opinions suggest he's firmly opposed to the Supreme Court doing for other loving relationships what it once did for his own. But perhaps the example of Clarence Thomas speaks to what seems most glaring about the oral arguments in the marriage equality cases, namely that just as with the rest of America, the Supreme Court seems to have increasingly become a place for partisan theatrics. Perhaps this was always the case, justices hiding their personal beliefs behind legal rationales. Still, the marriage equality arguments seemed even more shaped by politics than the law. On the one hand, pulling pages right from Republican presidential candidates, conservative Chief Justice John Roberts suggested the court shouldn't intervene in a state-driven social debate. Aping conservative religious activists, Justice Samuel Alito asked whether four people could then get married. On the other hand, Justice Stephen Breyer talked about marriage as a fundamental liberty while Justice Elena Kagan pushed back on whether legalizing same-sex marriage would really harm or take anything away from opposite-sex couples. Both arguments, and the moral force beneath them, seemed to echo gay rights messaging. Still, the highly political and momentous decision in Loving vs. Virginia was unanimous. Whichever way the court rules on same-sex marriage, it appears unlikely the ruling will be unanimous. So, while the definition of marriage has unarguably evolved, a fact hopefully the Supreme Court will soon confirm with a ruling in favor of marriage equality, what's also clear is that the court has evolved. Blown by the winds of partisanship whipping up America in general, the Supreme Court is increasingly divorced from reason and submissive to politics. The question remains not what is fundamentally the right decision -- I think both law and morality are clear in favor of equal treatment. The question is simply which side of the court will dominate the other.
( CNN ) What do Walmart, Target, and now the Koch Brothers have in common with the American Civil Liberties Union, ColorOfChange.org, and the Center for American Progress ?. All of them are adopting or advocating for hiring practices that open up work opportunities for people with convictions and leverage untapped potential in the labor market. Koch Industries' recent announcement that it will ``ban the box'' -- i.e., remove from its job applications the check-box that asks about convictions -- is a big step forward in the movement to break down barriers to employment for job-seekers with records. ``Ban the box'' doesn't prohibit background checks, it only postpones them until later in the hiring process. It's one item on a menu of fair-chance hiring reforms intended to ensure that job applicants are evaluated on their skills and qualifications first, rather than judged solely on past mistakes. These policies help reduce recidivism by making employment accessible to job-seekers who need a second chance, and they help break down the stigma of an arrest or conviction record. Two generations of the war on drugs, zero tolerance, and aggressive policing have left 70 million adults with arrest or conviction records that undermine their ability to be considered for jobs, even as the job market has grown steadily. Millions of people are being left behind, and it's taking a toll on our economy : The reduced economic output of people with records cost our economy $ 57 - $ 65 billion in 2008 alone. These criminal justice policies disproportionately impact African-Americans, who are incarcerated at a rate six times that of whites. The Department of Justice's recent investigation of the Ferguson Police Department, for example, shows the extent to which racism is perpetuated through police departments and the court system. That systemic racial disparity is then repeated throughout the economy, and the community is put at a severe disadvantage in the job market long after individuals have served their time. That's one reason the African-American unemployment rate is persistently twice that of whites. In a job market where employers that didn't previously do background checks now make them a routine part of hiring, qualified job-seekers are being screened out of the applicant pools for more and more jobs. Nearly one in three adults in America has an arrest or conviction history that will show up on a routine background check. Companies like Koch, Walmart, Target, and Bed Bath & Beyond recognize that this is a huge source of untapped talent, and that's why they've already banned the box on their job applications. These policies are also gaining traction with politicians across the political spectrum. Vermont Gov. Peter Shumlin, Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal, and Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe recently signed executive orders removing the conviction question from initial applications for state employment. So far, 16 states and more than 100 cities and counties have adopted fair-chance hiring policies. Six of those states and the District of Columbia, plus 25 cities and counties, have applied their policies to government contractors or private employers as well. The Obama administration took an important step toward fairer and smarter federal hiring practices last year when it issued an executive order prohibiting contractors from discriminating against LGBT individuals. Banning the box and other common-sense hiring reforms would build on that progress and on the successful work of governors and the corporate sector. The administration should ensure that the federal government does not continue to erect unfair and unnecessary barriers to employment of people with records. Already, more than 200 organizations and prominent individuals have publicly urged the Obama administration to take these practical steps. If Koch Industries -- a major federal contractor -- can ban the box, there's no reason why other federal contractors can not. Now it's time for President Obama to lead the way and embrace fair-chance hiring of people with records.
( CNN ) The quaint town of Dunblane, Scotland, has been set abuzz by the wedding of tennis legend Andy Murray to his long-term girlfriend, Kim Sears. Saturday's event -- dubbed ``the royal wedding of Scotland'' -- took place at Dunblane Cathedral, with cheering crowds spilling onto the streets to support their home-grown talent. The grand slam and Olympic champion donned a traditional blue and green tartan kilt, while his bride dazzled in a vintage-style gown by British designer Jenny Packham. The people of Dunblane braved wind, rain and even snow to catch a glimpse of the happy couple, having seen Murray grow from a young boy into a British sporting legend. ``Absolutely fabulous to see them today, especially Andy coming back to his hometown,'' said one lady in the crowd. ``He's a hero. He's done something that all local boys would really strive to do. He's a superstar,'' added another. The couple met at the U.S. Open in 2005 and got engaged in November last year. Before the ceremony, and understandably lost for words, Murray resorted to a series of emoticons to sum up his excitement for the day. Fellow tennis veteran Rafael Nadal and First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon posted their congratulatory messages on Twitter. But any plans for a honeymoon have been put on hold as the world number three returns to tournament action next week.
( CNN ) Somewhere over the rainbow, people on the Internet are losing their minds. Is it real ?. After the New York area received a large amount of rain, four rainbows stretched across the early morning sky on Tuesday. Amanda Curtis, CEO of a fashion company in New York, snapped the lucky shot. At first, she thought it was just one. ``But I looked a little bit closer and saw that there were actually four,'' she told CNN. ``I had a small moment of awe.''. She posted the picture to Twitter, and within a few hours, it had already received hundreds of retweets. ``It's been surreal I feel like we're breaking the Internet but in a really great way,'' she told CNN affiliate WPIX. According to CNN weather producer Rachel Aissen, this would be a double rainbow that has been reflected in the sky, due to a smooth body of water underneath the rainbow. This isn't the first time rainbows have shown up in multiples. But the splendor of such a scene can render us speechless, even emotional -- much like the star of the famous ``double rainbow'' video. CNN iReporter Yosemitebear Vasquez posted a video to YouTube in 2010 reacting to a double rainbow he spotted in Yosemite National Park. The video has since garnered over 40 million views. Of course, we asked the unofficial rainbow spokesman to weigh in on the phenomenon. ``Whoa, that's a quadruple rainbow ! All the way,'' he exclaims. ``What does it mean ?''. We don't know exactly, but the Internet can't get enough.
Kabul, Afghanistan ( CNN ) It is an unimaginably hideous outcome. To be raped by your cousin's husband ; be jailed for adultery as your attacker was married ; to suffer the ignominy of global uproar about your jailing and assault, but be pardoned by presidential decree ; and then to endure the shame and rejection from a conservative society that somehow held you to blame. The solution in this society ? Marry your attacker. That's what happened to Gulnaz, who was barely 16 when she was raped. She's now carrying the third child of her attacker, Asadullah, who was convicted and jailed -- though this was then reduced. Gulnaz's plight -- like so much in beleaguered Afghanistan -- disappeared from the world's gaze once she was pardoned and released courtesy of a presidential pardon. Instead of a new start, what followed for Gulnaz was a quiet, Afghan solution to the ``problem'' -- a telling sign of where women's rights stand in Afghanistan despite the billions that have poured into this country from the U.S. government and its NATO allies during more than a decade of war. We found Gulnaz in her family home. Smile, the name of the daughter born of the rape, is now a shining little girl, bouncing around the house that her mother shares with Asadullah's first wife -- who is also Gulnaz's cousin. Asadullah agreed to let us speak with him and Gulnaz because, it seemed, he wanted to show us that things were now settled, that under Afghanistan's version of social morality he had done the right thing. He had rescued Gulnaz from shame. ``If I hadn't married her, ( but ) according to our traditions, she couldn't have lived back in society,'' he tells us. ``Her brothers didn't want to accept her back. Now, she doesn't have any of those problems.''. 2011 : Thousands sign petition for Gulaz release. Gulnaz remains subdued throughout our meeting and does not once look her husband in the eye. ``I didn't want to ruin the life of my daughter or leave myself helpless so I agreed to marry him,'' she says. ``We are traditional people. When we get a bad name, we prefer death to living with that name in society.''. As Smile attempts to pour tea, the other seven children in this household run around the courtyard. The first wife remains unseen in the house. A portrait of Gulnaz's liberator in 2011, the then-president Hamid Karzai, hangs on the wall. But the sense of order here is undermined by the fact that this is a house built around a crime. How Gulnaz ended up here requires some explanation. There was pressure upon her to marry her attacker after her release. But at the same time, other activists were trying to assist her with an asylum bid abroad. ``Unfortunately, Gulnaz was heavily pressured to marry her attacker by various people within the government which, in and of itself, was immensely disappointing,'' her former attorney, an American citizen named Kimberley Motley, tells us. ``Gulnaz was constantly told that neither she nor her daughter would be protected if she did not succumb to their pressure to marry.. Gulnaz essentially became a prisoner of her environment. ``As an uneducated, young, single mother with no family support, it would have been an uphill battle for Gulnaz and her daughter.''. Local pressure won out. She was introduced to her attacker in the shelter where CNN first interviewed her upon release from prison. They talked and it was agreed she would marry him. Most disturbingly, the woman who -- despite knowing the stigma it would create around her -- defiantly insisted she had been raped when we spoke nearly four years ago, now says she was told by her relatives to make up the allegations. ``Now she is beside me and knows that it was not as big as they had shown it,'' says Asadullah. ``No I am not thinking about it anymore,'' Gulnaz adds. ``I don't have a problem with him now and I don't want to think about the past problems. My life is OK.. I am happy with my life.. It is going on.''. She is then permitted to talk with us alone. Asadullah moves away but stands close to the door of the room. Though she now maintains she was not raped, she explains her decision. She contradicts her husband, saying her brothers would have taken her back, had she not married him. ``My brothers opposed the marriage and told me to take my daughter and go to Pakistan to live with them instead,'' she says. ``But now we're married, they disowned me and won't see me again.''. Her decision was for her daughter. ``No, I couldn't fulfill my wishes in life. I married this man ; I cut relations with my family only to buy my daughter's future.''. It is truly chilling to see how things have gone for Gulnaz after the level of international attention her story received -- pregnant with the third child of the man who was once her rapist, accepting a life as his second wife, trapped in his home.
( CNN ) It is a city transformed, swollen in size but shrunken in scope, anxiously awaiting what comes next. On Kabul's streets, you can easily find the uneasy legacy of America's longest war. Outside one mosque -- mixing with other men desperate for a day's worth of casual manual labor -- are five men who months ago had one valuable skill NATO depended upon : they speak English. Now however, their world has turned upon them. They were, each for a different reason -- each for a reason they do not understand -- all fired from their jobs and then blacklisted, they say, meaning they can no longer get work with other government groups or NGOs here. The skill they once thrived off has left them isolated, and fearing reprisals. They sleep in market stalls, and avoid traveling to see their families in case the threats they face are visited upon them. ``My family is still living in the provinces,'' one of the men tells me. ``I can not go there. I am living in a market, in one of the empty shops.''. Another adds : ``My family, everybody, give up on me, they are nervous.''. A third man -- all requested anonymity -- says : ``Right now I sleep here, on the street, in this mosque area.''. ``We are in prison in Afghanistan,'' a fourth says. The U.S. Embassy and NATO declined to comment for this story. EXCLUSIVE : The last Americans in Afghanistan. Helicopters still buzz around the capital. Its population is five times what it was when NATO arrived here, even by the most conservative estimates, and the violence in the provinces means people swell it further still -- arriving in Kabul's dusty, mountainous bowl of a city in order to avoid the fighting. Neighborhoods that were once massively over-priced cliques of foreigners living in ``poppy palaces'' -- villas allegedly bought from profiteers of the opium trade -- are now empty. One road, forever pot-holed in the past decade, is now being covered over by Afghans who, it seems, are finally reclaiming that street. Even Chicken Street, the hackneyed pedestrian shopping road where new Western arrivals would buy carpets or local trinkets, is more or less deserted. One shopkeeper says it could be the embassy security warnings that are keeping people away now. It is the same for the restaurants here that used to brim with contractors and NGO workers. They are now empty, the sound of their heavy metal doors echoing across deserted tables. It is immeasurably different to three years ago when I lived there. Drive out east -- past the women in burqas who sit on road bumps, holding their children, hoping drivers will slow enough to throw them change -- and you see roads lined with the detritus of America's war here. Huge lines of excavators, cherry-pickers, and forklift trucks sit idle. At times it seemed there was little America wouldn't do, or try, to meets its often fluid goals in the country. Yet today, the machines that could have once moved small mountains do little more than gather dust. EXCLUSIVE : Afghan woman forced to marry her rapist. Further down the road too are more winners-turned-losers of the NATO presence here. Vast supply chains once kept 120,000 troops fed and watered. Trucks lined the roads and climbed up to the military bases. Now the bases are gone, and the trucks that once supplied millions sit still. Their bosses may have fled abroad with their winnings, yet the drivers have been left behind, stuck with vehicles that cost them $ 30,000 to buy -- and $ 1,000 a year just to keep on the road -- but that would fetch just a tenth of that price now. ``The contracts were with big businessmen and commanders who were giving us very little and made themselves very rich and are now living comfortably in Dubai,'' one truck driver tells us. Yet still the wedding palaces proliferate. Along one stretch of road their endless, multiplying lights throb. Each night the houses seem packed -- the commitment to the future still is popular here, despite the uncertainty -- even if the lights that decorate them seem more and more like a symbol of leaving. One set actually replicates the shape of an expensive hotel in Dubai. The city's lights do shine staggeringly and often constantly -- something the Taliban never achieved during their rule here. NATO's efforts to keep them on are reported to have involved diesel power stations that cost billions but were barely switched on. The question many surely ask here -- as the last American troops prepare to retreat inside the U.S. Embassy by the end of next year -- is how much longer the lights will continue to glow. READ MORE : Nick Paton Walsh answers your questions about Afghanistan.
( CNN ) Every day, images of war and conflict are splashed across our desktops, plastered on our TV screens and scattered through our mobile news feeds. Because of that, one's response to such imagery often becomes calloused or desensitized. This concept of ``how we digest images of war through mainstream media outlets,'' was what drove photographer Simon Brann Thorpe to begin his project ``Toy Soldiers.'' This idea to create a fresh perspective drove him into the desert of Western Sahara, a long-disputed region of northwestern Africa. Thorpe uses the area's harsh landscape as a powerful backdrop for soldiers posed as green plastic figurines -- similar to the popular toys that many children play with. The soldiers are with the Polisario Front, an independence movement that has been clashing with Morocco over the region since the mid-1970s. Thorpe said his project enables ``the creation of a visual metaphor from which a viewer develops their own emotional, physical and political response to war and conflict, when faced with the realization that the images do not contain toy soldiers but real soldiers.''. Thorpe's background was not in photojournalism, but in landscape photography, which lends to his powerful placement of the soldiers in the desert -- not to mention that all the locations chosen are historic locations of battles between Morocco and the Polisario Front. ``The conflict in Western Sahara receives virtually zero coverage despite 2015 being the 40th anniversary of the outbreak of war there,'' Thorpe said. After a ceasefire in 1991, the people of Western Sahara have been living in a state of non-resolution. The people are split into two camps -- those living in Moroccan-occupied territory, and those in refugee camps in Algeria. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. Thorpe had to get clearance to work with the Polisario Front military and also had to be cautious of how many troops he moved about at one time -- otherwise he would have needed permission from the United Nations. He usually worked with about 50 or 60 soldiers at a time. The autumn months did not offer much reprieve from the long hours in the sweltering desert sun. Thorpe would work with the troops' commander to position the men, then climb atop sandy mountains with his wide-angle lens and capture these striking images. They would work till dusk and then spend the night under the stars. Not only were the soldiers willing participants for this project, but they also helped construct the platforms they stood on. Thorpe said they were made out of old oil drums. After the elaborate five-week production, Thorpe hopes his images will raise questions on ``how images of war ( will ) be consumed in the future with ever-diminishing attention spans and competition for them.''. Simon Brann Thorpe's ``Toy Soldiers'' book is available for pre-order through Dewi Lewis Publishing. You can follow Thorpe on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.
( CNN ) A lot of questions. Not too many answers. Exactly one week after being taken into police custody in Baltimore, Freddie Gray died Sunday under circumstances that are unclear. ``The questions that many of you have are the same questions that we're asking : How was Mr. Gray injured ? Were our proper protocols and procedures actually followed ? What are the next steps to take from here ?'' said Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. An attorney for Gray's family alleges that police are involved in a cover-up. ``On last Sunday morning at about 8 a.m., the police chased Freddie Gray, a.. healthy man, without any evidence he had committed a crime. His take-down and arrest without probable cause occurred under a police video camera, which taped everything including the police dragging and throwing Freddy into a police vehicle while he screamed in pain,'' attorney William Murphy Jr. said in a statement. Video recorded at the scene shows Gray, with his hands behind his back, screaming as police raise him to his feet. They drag him to a waiting van. ``He lapsed into a coma, died, was resuscitated, stayed in a coma and on Monday, underwent extensive surgery at Shock Trauma to save his life. He clung to life for seven days and died today at approximately 7 a.m. We believe the police are keeping the circumstances of Freddie's death secret until they develop a version of events that will absolve them of all responsibility,'' said Murphy. The attorney added that Gray's spinal cord was severely injured. At this point, police are declining to say much about the case, citing ongoing administrative and criminal investigations. They have not released the incident report, nor have they released the names of the officers involved. They have said that those officers have been placed on administrative duties. When asked why officers first encountered Gray, Baltimore Police Dept. Capt. Eric Kowalczyk told CNN that they had been working in an area known for violent crime and drug sales. When the officers approached him, Gray fled, Kowalczyk said. Gray's death comes amid a string of recent deaths involving white officers and black suspects. The death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, touched off protests and sparked a nationwide debate over race and policing. Brown, an unarmed black teen, was shot by Darren Wilson, a white officer, last August. According to CNN affiliate WJZ, protesters rallied over the weekend in Baltimore, demanding answers. ``Our hope and goal here is to be as informative as we can without compromising the criminal investigation,'' said Kowalczyk. ``We're very troubled by this. We want to find out the answers as much as the public does.''. CNN's Vivan Kuo and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The Baltimore mother who slapped her son several times and pulled him out of a protest told CNN on Wednesday she wasn't concerned that she might be embarrassing her son. ``Not at all,'' Toya Graham told CNN's ``Anderson Cooper 360 ˚'' in an interview that aired Wednesday night. ``He was embarrassing himself by wearing that mask and that hoodie and doing what he was doing.''. The video of Graham yanking her son, Michael Singleton, and slapping him with a right hand as CNN affiliate WMAR recorded has led to the Internet calling Graham #motheroftheyear. Many people have praised the unemployed, single mother of six for going to the Mondawmin Mall and getting her son away from the escalating violence. Graham told Cooper that she saw her son with a brick in his hand, and she lost control of her emotions and told him to drop it. Wednesday night : Across United States, protests in support of Baltimore demonstrators. ``I did ( get emotional ). You know, once he threw that rock down I said, `You weren't brought up like this,''' Graham said. He's not a perfect child, but he's also not a thug, she said. The 16-year-old boy said he understood that his mother was there looking out for him. ``She didn't want me to get in trouble ( with the ) law. She didn't want me to be like another Freddie Gray,'' he said, referring to the 25-year-old man who died of a severe spinal injury after being arrested by Baltimore police. Gray's death has sparked daily protests over police brutality. There have also been riots and looting that prompted the city to put a curfew into effect. Graham said her son told her the night before the violence at the mall that something was up. She told him then and the next morning not to go. He swore to her he wouldn't. Her motherly sense kicked in when she heard school had closed early and the mall was shutting down, too. She went to the mall and focused on the teens who were tossing rocks and bricks. There he was, in sweatpants she recognized. They made eye contact. He had a brick in his hand, and that set her off. Wednesday night : Marchers back in the streets of Baltimore. ``I was so angry with him that he had made a decision to do some harm to the police officers,'' she said. She yelled at him to put the brick down. Singleton said he had seen her, but it didn't make sense that his mother would be there. But when he heard her voice, he realized it really was his mom -- and he was in big trouble. Then the camera captured her memorable smackdown. ``It was just World War III from right there,'' he said, showing some humor about the incident. Graham noticed the TV crew but didn't think anything of it. And she didn't care. ``I wasn't there to be recorded. I was there to get my child,'' she said. Tameka Brown, one of Graham's five daughters, told CNN on Tuesday it wasn't that hard for her mom to spot her 16-year-old half-brother. ``She knows her son and picked him out. Even with the mask on, she knew,'' Brown said. Brown said her mother is always looking out for her children. ``She has always been tough and knows where we are at,'' Brown said. Graham said she tries to steer her son away from potential trouble and troublemakers. ``As long as I have breath in my body I will always try to do right by Michael and show him what's going on out in society doesn't have to be you,'' she told CNN. Her son said that once they got home from the mall he understood why she pulled him out of the crowd. ``I was embarrassed a little bit, until she just started talking to me when we got home,'' he said.'' ( She was ) just telling me she did it because she cared about me. And it wasn't to embarrass me, but because she cared.''. CNN's Elise Miller and AnneClaire Stapleton contributed to this report. Watch Anderson Cooper 360 ° weeknights 8pm ET. For the latest from AC360 ° click here.
( CNN ) A New York jury deliberating the fate of the man charged with the 1979 killing of 6-year-old Etan Patz is struggling to reach a verdict. The little boy's disappearance, more than three decades ago, sparked an era of heightened awareness of crimes against children. Deliberations resumed on Thursday, one day after New York Supreme Court Justice Maxwell Wiley ordered the jury to continue efforts to reach a decision on the guilt or innocence of a bodega worker named Pedro Hernandez. On the 10th day of deliberations, the jurors on Wednesday said in a note that they were unable to reach a unanimous decision. Hernandez confessed to police three years ago, but his lawyers said he made up his account of the crime. Etan Patz's parents have waited more than 35 years for justice, but some have questioned whether that is even possible in Hernandez's case. His lawyer has said that he is mentally challenged, severely mentally ill and unable to tell whether he committed the crime or not. Hernandez told police in a taped statement that he lured Patz into a basement as the boy was on his way to a bus stop in Lower Manhattan. He said he killed the boy and threw his body away in a plastic bag. Neither the child nor his remains have ever been recovered. But Hernandez has been repeatedly diagnosed with schizophrenia and has an ``IQ in the borderline-to-mild mental retardation range,'' his attorney Harvey Fishbein has said. Police interrogated Hernandez for 7 1/2 hours before he confessed. ``I think anyone who sees these confessions will understand that when the police were finished, Mr. Hernandez believed he had killed Etan Patz. But that doesn't mean he actually did, and that's the whole point of this case,'' Fishbein has said. But in November, a New York judge ruled that Hernandez's confession and his waiving of his Miranda rights were legal, making the confession admissible in court. Hernandez is charged with two counts of second-degree murder for allegedly intending to cause the boy's death and for a killing that occurred during a kidnapping. Another man's name has also hung over the Patz case for years -- Jose Antonio Ramos, a convicted child molester acquainted with Etan's babysitter. Etan's parents, Stan and Julia Patz, sued Ramos in 2001. The boy was officially declared dead as part of that lawsuit. A judge found Ramos responsible for the boy's death and ordered him to pay the family $ 2 million -- money the Patz family has never received. Though Ramos was at the center of investigations for years, he has never been charged. He served a 20-year prison sentence in Pennsylvania for molesting another boy and was set to be released in 2012. He was immediately rearrested upon leaving jail in 2012 on charges of failing to register as a sex offender, The Associated Press reported. Since their young son's disappearance, the Patzes have worked to keep the case alive and to create awareness of missing children in the United States. In the early 1980s, Etan's photo appeared on milk cartons across the country, and news media focused in on the search for him and other missing children. ``It awakened America,'' said Ernie Allen, president and chief executive officer of the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. ``It was the beginning of a missing children's movement.''. The actual number of children who were kidnapped and killed did not change -- it's always been a relatively small number -- but awareness of the cases skyrocketed, experts said. But the news industry was expanding to cable television, and sweet images of children appeared along with distraught parents begging for their safe return. The fear rising across the nation sparked awareness and prompted change from politicians and police. In 1984, Congress passed the Missing Children's Assistance Act, which led to the creation of the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. President Ronald Reagan opened the center in a White House ceremony in 1984. It soon began operating a 24-hour toll-free hot line on which callers could report information about missing boys and girls. CNN's Lorenzo Ferrigno and Joe Sterling contributed to this report.
( CNN ) James Holmes made his introduction to the world in a Colorado cinema filled with spectators watching a midnight showing of the new Batman movie, ``The Dark Knight Rises,'' in June 2012. The moment became one of the deadliest shootings in U.S. history. Holmes is accused of opening fire on the crowd, killing 12 people and injuring or maiming 70 others in Aurora, a suburb of Denver. Holmes appeared like a comic book character : He resembled the Joker, with red-orange hair, similar to the late actor Heath Ledger's portrayal of the villain in an earlier Batman movie, authorities said. But Holmes was hardly a cartoon. Authorities said he wore body armor and carried several guns, including an AR-15 rifle, with lots of ammo. He also wore a gas mask. Holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea : not guilty by reason of insanity. Prosecutors aren't swayed and will seek the death penalty. Opening statements in his trial are scheduled to begin Monday. Holmes admits to the shootings but says he was suffering ``a psychotic episode'' at the time, according to court papers filed in July 2013 by the state public defenders, Daniel King and Tamara A. Brady. Evidence ``revealed thus far in the case supports the defense's position that Mr. Holmes suffers from a severe mental illness and was in the throes of a psychotic episode when he committed the acts that resulted in the tragic loss of life and injuries sustained by moviegoers on July 20, 2012,'' the public defenders wrote. Holmes no longer looks like a dazed Joker, as he did in his first appearance before a judge in 2012. He appeared dramatically different in January when jury selection began for his trial : 9,000 potential jurors were summoned for duty, described as one of the nation's largest jury calls. Holmes now has a cleaner look, with a mustache, button-down shirt and khaki pants. In January, he had a beard and eyeglasses. If this new image sounds like one of an academician, it may be because Holmes, now 27, once was one. Just before the shooting, Holmes was a doctoral student in neuroscience, and he was studying how the brain works, with his schooling funded by a U.S. government grant. Yet for all his learning, Holmes apparently lacked the capacity to command his own mind, according to the case against him. A jury will ultimately decide Holmes' fate. That panel is made up of 12 jurors and 12 alternates. They are 19 women and five men, and almost all are white and middle-aged. The trial could last until autumn. When jury summonses were issued in January, each potential juror stood a 0.2 % chance of being selected, District Attorney George Brauchler told the final jury this month. He described the approaching trial as ``four to five months of a horrible roller coaster through the worst haunted house you can imagine.''. The jury will have to render verdicts on each of the 165 counts against Holmes, including murder and attempted murder charges. Meanwhile, victims and their relatives are challenging all media outlets ``to stop the gratuitous use of the name and likeness of mass killers, thereby depriving violent individuals the media celebrity and media spotlight they so crave,'' the No Notoriety group says. They are joined by victims from eight other mass shootings in recent U.S. history. Raised in central coastal California and in San Diego, James Eagan Holmes is the son of a mathematician father noted for his work at the FICO firm that provides credit scores and a registered nurse mother, according to the U-T San Diego newspaper. Holmes also has a sister, Chris, a musician, who's five years younger, the newspaper said. His childhood classmates remember him as a clean-cut, bespectacled boy with an ``exemplary'' character who ``never gave any trouble, and never got in trouble himself,'' The Salinas Californian reported. His family then moved down the California coast, where Holmes grew up in the San Diego-area neighborhood of Rancho Peñasquitos, which a neighbor described as ``kind of like Mayberry,'' the San Diego newspaper said. Holmes attended Westview High School, which says its school district sits in ``a primarily middle - to upper-middle-income residential community.''. There, Holmes ran cross-country, played soccer and later worked at a biotechnology internship at the Salk Institute and Miramar College, which attracts academically talented students. By then, his peers described him as standoffish and a bit of a wiseacre, the San Diego newspaper said. Holmes attended college fairly close to home, in a neighboring area known as Southern California's ``inland empire'' because it's more than an hour's drive from the coast, in a warm, low-desert climate. He entered the University of California, Riverside, in 2006 as a scholarship student. In 2008 he was a summer camp counselor for disadvantaged children, age 7 to 14, at Camp Max Straus, run by Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters of Los Angeles. He graduated from UC Riverside in 2010 with the highest honors and a bachelor's degree in neuroscience. ``Academically, he was at the top of the top,'' Chancellor Timothy P. White said. He seemed destined for even higher achievement. By 2011, he had enrolled as a doctoral student in the neuroscience program at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, the largest academic health center in the Rocky Mountain region. The doctoral in neuroscience program attended by Holmes focuses on how the brain works, with an emphasis on processing of information, behavior, learning and memory. Holmes was one of six pre-thesis Ph.D. students in the program who were awarded a neuroscience training grant from the National Institutes of Health. The grant rewards outstanding neuroscientists who will make major contributions to neurobiology. A syllabus that listed Holmes as a student at the medical school shows he was to have delivered a presentation about microRNA biomarkers. But Holmes struggled, and his own mental health took an ominous turn. In March 2012, he told a classmate he wanted to kill people, and that he would do so ``when his life was over,'' court documents said. Holmes was ``denied access to the school after June 12, 2012, after he made threats to a professor,'' according to court documents. About that time, Holmes was a patient of University of Colorado psychiatrist Lynne Fenton. Fenton was so concerned about Holmes' behavior that she mentioned it to her colleagues, saying he could be a danger to others, CNN affiliate KMGH-TV reported, citing sources with knowledge of the investigation. Fenton's concerns surfaced in early June, sources told the Denver station. Holmes began to fantasize about killing ``a lot of people'' in early June, nearly six weeks before the shootings, the station reported, citing unidentified sources familiar with the investigation. Holmes' psychiatrist contacted several members of a ``behavioral evaluation and threat assessment'' team to say Holmes could be a danger to others, the station reported. At issue was whether to order Holmes held for 72 hours to be evaluated by mental health professionals, the station reported. ``Fenton made initial phone calls about engaging the BETA team'' in ``the first 10 days'' of June, but it ``never came together'' because in the period Fenton was having conversations with team members, Holmes began the process of dropping out of school, a source told KMGH. Defense attorneys have rejected the prosecution's assertions that Holmes was barred from campus. Citing statements from the university, Holmes' attorneys have argued that his access was revoked because that's normal procedure when a student drops enrollment. What caused this turn for the worse for Holmes has yet to be clearly detailed. In the months before the shooting, he bought four weapons and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition, authorities said. Police said he also booby-trapped his third-floor apartment with explosives, but police weren't fooled. After Holmes was caught in the cinema parking lot immediately after the shooting, bomb technicians went to the apartment and neutralized the explosives. No one was injured at the apartment building. Nine minutes before Holmes went into the movie theater, he called a University of Colorado switchboard, public defender Brady has said in court. The number he called can be used to get in contact with faculty members during off hours, Brady said. Court documents have also revealed that investigators have obtained text messages that Holmes exchanged with someone before the shooting. That person was not named, and the content of the texts has not been made public. According to The New York Times, Holmes sent a text message to a fellow graduate student, a woman, about two weeks before the shooting. She asked if he had left Aurora yet, reported the newspaper, which didn't identify her. No, he had two months left on his lease, Holmes wrote back, according to the Times. He asked if she had heard of ``dysphoric mania,'' a form of bipolar disorder marked by the highs of mania and the dark and sometimes paranoid delusions of major depression. The woman asked if the disorder could be managed with treatment. ``It was,'' Holmes wrote her, according to the Times. But he warned she should stay away from him ``because I am bad news,'' the newspaper reported. It was her last contact with Holmes. After the shooting, Holmes' family issued a brief statement : ``Our hearts go out to those who were involved in this tragedy and to the families and friends of those involved,'' they said, without giving any information about their son. Since then, prosecutors have refused to offer a plea deal to Holmes. For Holmes, ``justice is death,'' said Brauchler, the district attorney. In December, Holmes' parents, who will be attending the trial, issued another statement : They asked that their son's life be spared and that he be sent to an institution for mentally ill people for the rest of his life, if he's found not guilty by reason of insanity. ``He is not a monster,'' Robert and Arlene Holmes wrote, saying the death penalty is ``morally wrong, especially when the condemned is mentally ill.''. ``He is a human being gripped by a severe mental illness,'' the parents said. The matter will be settled by the jury. CNN's Ana Cabrera and Sara Weisfeldt contributed to this report from Denver.
( CNN ) This weekend, millions of people are expected to tune in to watch two men beat each other up. Why is this ?. We'll explore, but first let's get something out of the way : The big fight between Manny Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather won't ``save'' boxing, a sport that has fallen precipitously since its 20th century heyday. If anything, the so-called ``Fight of the Century'' just reinforces the sport's problems, as two aging heroes collide in what might be the last nationally relevant fight for a very long time. There's so much wrong with boxing's business model, but all you really need to understand is this : Most sports fans probably can't name a single active boxer after Mayweather and Pacquiao. Some might know that the long-reigning heavyweight champ is a towering Ukrainian with a boring jab-happy style, but most wouldn't come up with his name ( Wladimir Klitschko ). Boxing isn't fading away because we've finally awoken to its brutality but from a combination of catastrophic mismanagement and competition from Mixed Martial Arts -- a younger, more dynamic and better-managed competitor. The rocket rise of MMA's premier organization, the Ultimate Fighting Championship, has matched boxing's equally dramatic decline. In the course of just two decades, the UFC has grown from a freaky-violent carny sideshow into a mainstream sport. In fact, the fan base of the UFC now rivals that of the world's most popular fighting sport : ice hockey. Some aficionados spin elaborate defenses of the hundreds of fist fights that break out every year in NHL games, claiming they make the game safer by punishing dirty play. But that's so weak. Everyone knows why the NHL hasn't cracked down on fighting hard enough to end it : fans love it way too much. As the hockey announcer Don Cherry once said, ``When -LSB- legendary tough guy -RSB- Bob Probert was fighting, did you ever see anyone get out of their seat and go get coffee.''. But why do we like to watch fights in the first place ? Over the past 20 years, I've watched boxing and MMA in a spirit of nervous fascination. Watching fighters kick, punch and strangle each other, I'd be thinking, I'm a civilized person. I appear not to be a sociopath. So why am I watching ? What's wrong with me ? And what's wrong with all of us ? Who among us hasn't felt the giddy, guilty thrill of a fistfight breaking out -- whether in a schoolyard, a hockey rink or a prize ring ?. We all claim to hate violence, but I think we protest too much. Inside us all, there's a creature that adores it. How else are we to explain our yen for carnage in rough sports, films, gory video games and literature ?. So is that it ? Are we drawn to a big fight like Mayweather-Pacquiao simply by bloodlust and barbarism ? Actually, I think that's only part of the story, and not the biggest part. If we just wanted blood and pain, we wouldn't bother with the tame violence of pay-per-view fisticuffs. Instead, we'd fire up a web browser and watch ISIS snuff videos for free. But many people who feel no temptation to watch Internet snuff feel sorely tempted to watch a big fight. What's going on ?. There's a great literature on boxing, with contributions from writers such as Ernest Hemingway, Norman Mailer and Joyce Carol Oates. For them, boxing isn't really a sport. You can't play boxing like you can play tennis. They compared boxing to a rite, or a religion, or above all to theater, complete with spotlit performers improvising on an elevated stage. A fight was drama sweated down to the bones -- a metaphor for the whole human condition, with everything noble and ugly on display. While it may seem like a stretch, I think we are drawn to prizefights less to revel in what's dark and nasty in human nature than to honor what's good and noble. Prizefights set up conditions of dramatic adversity that evoke what we admire most in human beings : extremes of courage, grace, fortitude and even heroism. So should we feel virtuous as we watch Mayweather and Pacquiao's epic brain damage contest ? I wouldn't go that far. Perhaps such spectacles really should, as most of the world's medical societies insist, be abolished. Most of us feel ambivalent toward prizefighting because we should. A fight puts the darkest stuff in human nature on display : the bared fangs, the blood, the frenetic drive to do harm. But all that dark stuff draws out the best stuff, and turns a great fight into a showcase for the indomitability of human will. When Mayweather and Pacquiao clash at center ring on Saturday night, the good angels of human nature will yearn to turn away -- and to lean in.
( CNN ) As a boat packed with hundreds of migrants capsized in Mediterranean waters, many were trapped inside behind locked doors. That's the account one survivor of the deadly shipwreck gave to investigators, according to a statement released Sunday by prosecutors in Catania, Italy. The Bangladeshi migrant's description provides new details about what may have happened aboard the ship, which sent out a distress call in the dark of night Saturday after a couple of days at sea. As rescuers approached, authorities say migrants on the boat moved to one side, hoping to be saved. Their movement caused the large, multilevel boat to capsize about 110 kilometers ( almost 70 miles ) north of Libya, sending the desperate crowd plunging into the sea, their chance of survival slim. The migrant, who spoke to investigators after being airlifted to a hospital in Catania, is among dozens who authorities say were saved from the sinking vessel. He told investigators there were 950 people on board -- a number prosecutors haven't verified. Maltese authorities, who are working with Italian rescuers, earlier said around 50 of 700 people on the boat had been saved. Many on lower levels of the boat were trapped inside because smugglers had locked the doors, the migrant said, according to prosecutors. The Italian Coast Guard is collecting statements from other survivors, prosecutors said. It was the latest in a series of dangerous voyages for hundreds of men, women and children who boarded the boat in Libya, hoping to make it safely to Europe. Passengers on the boat were from a number of nations, including Algeria, Egypt, Somalia, Niger, Senegal, Mali, Zambia, Bangladesh and Ghana, prosecutors said. While the shipwreck was an accident, Malta's Prime Minister slammed the human traffickers who he accused of risking people's lives by putting them on rickety ships in unpredictable waters. ``Gangs of criminals are putting people on a boat, sometimes even at gunpoint,'' Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said. ``They're putting them on the road to death, really, and nothing else.''. It's ``genocide -- nothing less than genocide, really,'' Muscat told CNN. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres said that the incident could be worse than an incident last week in which 400 refugees and migrants died in the Mediterranean. ``Our troops, together with the Italian navy, are literally looking through the bodies to try to find someone who's still alive,'' Muscat said of the latest incident at sea. Flavio Di Giacomo, spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, told CNN that survivors were taken to Sicily. The Italian Coast Guard, which is leading the rescue operation, reported that at least 24 bodies had been recovered so far at the shipwreck site. Security for Libya's borders is essential to ``take out these criminal gangs -- these terrorists,'' Muscat said. The international community ``can not continue to turn a blind eye,'' he added. The leader of the international nonpartisan medical organization Doctors Without Borders had strong words Sunday for the tragedy. ``A mass grave is being created in the Mediterranean Sea and European policies are responsible,'' said the group's president, Loris De Filippi. He compared the high number of deaths to ``figures from a war zone.''. De Filippi called on European states to immediately launch large-scale search-and-rescue operations with proactive patrolling as close as possible to Libyan shores. ``Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders, forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea,'' he said. ``This tragedy is only just beginning, but it can and should be stopped.''. Doctors Without Borders will begin its own rescue effort, he added, because ``as a medical, humanitarian organization, we simply can not wait any longer.''. French President Francois Hollande called for the European Union to help more in the rescue. If the deaths are in the hundreds, he said, the accident could be ``the worst disaster in recent years in the Mediterranean.''. Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi called an emergency Cabinet meeting in Rome. Speaking to journalists later, he defended Italy's response. ``Adding 10 more vessels'' to patrol the Mediterranean, Renzi said, wouldn't solve the root of why the tragedy occurred. ``This has to be clear : there was not an absence ( of rescue vessels ) which led to the disaster. And this is the proof that if you want to eradicate the problem from the root, you have to respond in a different way. And what we're doing in the next few hours will show this.''. Renzi said the focus needs to be on eradicating human trafficking and that the responsibility lies with the whole world, ``not just Italy and Malta.''. Human Rights Watch urged the EU to act quickly. ``The EU is standing by with arms crossed while hundreds die off its shores,'' said Judith Sunderland, deputy Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch. ``These deaths might well have been prevented if the EU had launched a genuine search-and-rescue effort.''. The EU released a statement Sunday saying that it planned action down the road but didn't detail any immediate plans to help with the search for the victims of this accident. ``The European Commission is deeply chagrined by the tragic developments in the Mediterranean today, but also over the past days and weeks. The reality is stark and our actions must therefore be bold. These are human lives at stake, and the European Union as a whole has a moral and humanitarian obligation to act,'' it said. The EU is consulting member states, European agencies and international organizations to prepare what it called a European Migration Strategy, which would be adopted in middle May. It stressed the need to ``address the situation at its roots.''. ``And as long as countries of origin and transit do not take action to prevent these desperate trips, people will continue to put their lives at risk,'' the statement read. Many of the migrants who board ships to cross the Mediterranean are from sub-Saharan Africa, and travel for weeks just to get to the ships. They're seeking a better life, but many are exploited by the traffickers who organize the voyages. Already this year, more than 900 migrants are believed to have died while crossing the Mediterranean -- far more than during the same period in 2014, the International Organization for Migration said Friday. In one four-day period alone, more than 8,000 migrants were rescued, according to the Italian Coast Guard. On one day alone, SOS calls came in from 20 boats in distress. Roberta Metsola, a Maltese member of the European Parliament, told CNN on Sunday that countries from Northern Europe need to share the responsibility with their southern neighbors. ``The people are going to continue to arrive,'' she said. ``The desperation subsists -- there are almost a million people waiting to board boats and come to Europe to seek a better life. And that fact has to be recognized.''. Journalist Barbie Nadeau and CNN's Hada Messia reported from Rome ; CNN's Jethro Mullen reported Hong Kong, and CNN's Ashley Fantz, Josh Levs, Catherine E. Shoichet, Jessica King and Christine Theodorou reported from Atlanta. CNN's Tina Burnside and Susanna Capelouto contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Japan's space agency announced this week that the country would put an unmanned rover on the surface of the moon by 2018, joining an elite club of nations who have explored Earth's satellite. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency ( JAXA ), divulged the plan to an expert panel, including members of the cabinet and the Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Ministry on Monday. ``This is an initial step and a lot of procedures are still ahead before the plan is formally approved,'' a JAXA spokesperson told reporters. If it is approved, the agency will reportedly use its Epsilon solid-fuel rocket technology to carry and deploy a SLIM probe -- the acronym stands for ``Smart Lander for Investigating Moon'' -- on the surface of the celestial body. Japanese media estimates that the mission will cost in the region of ¥ 10 billion to ¥ 15 billion ( $ 83.4 million - $ 125 million ). JAXA spokesperson Chihito Onda confirmed to CNN that this estimate is realistic. The mission is expected to be used to perfect soft-landing technologies, which could be utilized in future, manned expeditions to the moon, or even Mars. The lander will use face recognition software found in digital cameras, which will be repurposed to enable the craft to recognize craters on the surface, Onda said. The move could be seen as Japan's attempt to play catchup to its Asian neighbors China and India, which have both notched significant extraterrestrial victories in recent years -- China's Yutu lunar rover outlasted expectations and India successfully put a probe into orbit around Mars the first time of asking. In 2008 Japan put its SELENE craft -- known in Japan as Kaguya, after a Japanese moon princess from a 10th century folk tale -- into orbit around the moon to gather data about its surface. The data gathered by the orbiter will also be used to calculate a suitable landing site for the rover. JAXA has also put a probe on an asteroid, which returned to Earth in 2010. Along with China, the United States and the former Soviet Union are the only other nations to have so far landed craft on the surface of the moon. CNN's Junko Ogura contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) The U.S. said Tuesday that deploying warships to Yemen to monitor nearby Iranian vessels has given America ``options'' for how it could react to Iran's behavior in the region. The warships are being deployed to monitor ships traveling from Iran that could be trafficking arms to Houthi rebels in Yemen, U.S. officials told CNN, saying the move was also meant to reassure allies in the region. ``By having American sea power in the region, we have created options for ourselves,'' said Pentagon spokesman Col. Steve Warren. He noted that the nine ships in the Iranian convoy were cargo ships, but he declined to specify what they were carrying beyond ``containers.'' International officials are concerned that Iran could surreptitiously attempt to transfer weaponry to the Houthis. President Barack Obama told MSNBC that the United States has been clear in its messages to Tehran on sending weapons to Houthi rebels inside Yemen. ``What we've said to them is if there are weapons delivered to factions within Yemen that could threaten navigation, that's a problem,'' Obama said in the interview, a clip of which aired on NBC Nightly News. ``We're not sending them obscure messages, we send them very direct messages about it,'' Obama said. While the Iranian ships remain in international waters, the U.S. and other partner nations can keep an eye on the Iranian ships to see if they move toward Yemeni territorial waters. But it would be an extraordinary step and certainly not a foregone conclusion that the U.S. would attempt to board an Iranian ship if it entered Yemeni waters, U.S. officials said. ``I want to be very clear just so that no one has the wrong impression. They are not there to intercept Iranian ships,'' State Department Spokeswoman Marie Harf told reporters Tuesday. ``The purpose of moving them is only to ensure that the shipping lanes remain open and safe.''. Warren too added that he was unaware of any direct contact between the American and Iranian vessels at this point. The Obama administration and U.S. defense officials maintain the primary purpose of positioning additional U.S. warships in the region is to ensure the free flow of commerce through established international shipping lanes and to ensure maritime security in the region. There is a message for Iran as well. A U.S. military official told CNN that aircraft from aboard the USS Theodore Roosevelt are also conducting ``manned reconnaissance'' to monitor all maritime traffic moving through the area the Roosevelt is operating in to determine what is going on there in order to assist in making informed decisions. This official stressed that the repositioning of U.S. ships in the region was taken in order to assure the freedom of navigation through established international shipping lanes and ensuring maritime security and not to interdict Iranian ships. The Roosevelt aircraft carrier and the guided missile cruiser USS Normandy were the two ships the Navy moved into the waters off the coast of Yemen on Sunday. At this stage, there are nine U.S. naval ships operating off the coast in Yemen. ``The United States alongside the international community, including the United Nations, is serious about the Iranians not providing weapons to the Houthis,'' White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest told reporters Tuesday. ``Providing weapons to the Houthis only exacerbates the violence and instability in this region in a way that will have continued terrible impact on the humanitarian situation in the country.''. The heightened tensions could have broader consequences for the relationship between the U.S. and Iran, coming weeks after the announcement of a framework agreement to limit Iran's nuclear program. Officials on Capitol Hill and elsewhere pointed out that the situation in Yemen adds an additional challenge when it comes to reaching a final deal. ``I don't think this changes something directly, but it does highlight that Iran has a number of activities around the region and around the world that are problematic,'' Texas Rep. Mac Thornberry, the Republican chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, told CNN Tuesday. ``It includes their missile program, it includes their growing influence in Iraq, it includes their propping up of ( President Bashar al - ) Assad in Syria and their fueling this war in Yemen.''. U.S. warships from the carrier group of the Roosevelt are joining allied vessels from Saudi Arabia, Egypt and other partner nations prepared to intercept a convoy of seven to nine Iranian vessels believed headed for Yemen. ``We are closely monitoring all maritime activity in the Arabian Sea and Gulf of Aden,'' Cmdr. Kevin Stephens of the Fifth Fleet told CNN. ``We not going discuss the number and types of vessels we are monitoring or speculate about the possible destination or cargo of those vessels.''. When asked about warnings from Saudi Arabia and the U.S. to keep Iranian navy ships away from Yemen, the commander of Iran's Regular Navy, Flotilla Adm. Habibollah Sayyari, said his fleet was operating legally. ``We don't let anyone give us warnings and threats, because we are working according to international law and regulations,'' he said. ``And we work for the security of our country and other countries.''. Sayyari added that Iranian navy ships in the area were there to combat piracy and secure the safe transfer of goods through the waters. U.S. ships do not have authority to forcibly board Iranian-flagged ships. Earlier this month, a U.S. Navy ship consensually boarded a Panamanian-flagged vessel suspected of trafficking people, drugs or weapons. Nothing was found. The U.S. warships come to a region seeing a good deal of U.S. military activity. The Roosevelt in particular only recently arrived in the theater and had been in the Arabian Gulf supporting Operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq and Syria, according to Stephens. Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on the ``Situation Room'' that he would only endorse U.S. air power against Yemen if it was the only option. ``It is a very serious escalatory step,'' he said on Monday. ``If you're going to use U.S. air power, what else is going to happen to make sure you stop the Houthis ?''. McCain blamed President Barack Obama's foreign policy for the deteriorating situation. ``It was very obvious to many of us that this did not have to happen,'' McCain said. ``We did not take care of the regime that was in place, the president that was in there. It is a symptom of our failure throughout the Middle East.''. CNN's Jim Acosta, Frederik Pleitgen, Theodore Schleifer and Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Prosperity gospel pastor Creflo Dollar responded recently to critics of his campaign to buy a very pricey Gulfstream G650. Dollar noted in a recent address to his congregants that the devil was attempting to discredit him in regards to his campaign seeking $ 300 from 200,000 people globally to help buy the luxury jet. In a newly posted five-minute clip on YouTube, the Atlanta-area pastor speaks to his followers at World Changers Church International, tackling his critics and allegations about tithes, his real name and reports alleging members of having to reveal their W2 statuses to come into the church's sanctuary. '' ( The devil thinks ) I got to discredit that man before he starts showing people Jesus !'' Dollar preaches to loud applause. ``I'm on my sabbatical, and the enemy's trying to discredit me,'' Dollar stated. Dollar is focused in the video on getting his point across and slams critics of his original request by stating to the people gathered, ``I never one time came to you and asked you for a dime for this airplane, did I ?''. But in March, Dollar did appeal in a video to ``friends from around the world,'' soliciting donations to replace his current 1984 Gulfstream G-1159A. Because of two accidents that occurred in the 31-year-old plane, Dollar and his staff have been flying commercial. ``The ( critics ) don't know what we do. That's why they asked the question, what does a preacher need with an airplane ? If you knew what we did, then you wouldn't ask that question,'' Dollar said. ``Just because the world doesn't have it, doesn't mean that you can't.''. In March, the ministry's desire to purchase a Gulfstream G650 airplane was met with criticism on social media and was the subject of nationwide media reports. The furor came after a nearly six-minute video was uploaded on the Creflo Dollar Ministries website soliciting money for a Gulfstream G650, which sells for a reported $ 65 million. The page featuring the video and information on the fundraiser has been taken down, but those wishing to donate are still able to do so on the church's gift page. A Gulfstream G650 can fly 18 passengers and four crew members, according to gulfstream.com. The jet comes with two Rolls-Royce engines, high-speed Internet and two multichannel satellites and allows for a four-and-a-half-hour commute from New York to Los Angeles. ``The G650 is the biggest, fastest, most luxurious, longest range and most technologically advanced jet -- by far,'' according to the site. The project wasn't limited to member donations, as the site stated that ``we are asking members, partners and supporters of this ministry to assist us in acquiring a Gulfstream G650.''. In the new video, Dollar claims the church has more than 3 million supporters worldwide who want him to come to where they are. The pastor has said the two incidents involving his old plane -- including one in which a mechanical failure caused the jet to skid off a runway in London while his wife and their three daughters were aboard -- have shown him it was time to turn to God for a new airplane. Prosperity gospel is a theology that promises wealth and health to those who tithe 10 % of their income to the church. Attempts to contact Dollar's ministry for comment on Thursday were unsuccessful. CNN's Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
( CNN ) President Barack Obama took part in a roundtable discussion this week on climate change, refocusing on the issue from a public health vantage point. After the event at Washington's Howard University on Tuesday, Obama sat down with me for a one-on-one interview. I asked him about the science behind climate change and public health and the message he wants the average American to take away, as well as how enforceable his action plan is. Here are five things I learned :. The President enrolled at Occidental College in Los Angeles in 1979 ( he transferred to Columbia University his junior year ). While in L.A., he said, the air was so bad that it prevented him from running outside. He remembers the air quality alerts and how people with respiratory problems had to stay inside. He credits the Clean Air Act with making Americans ``a lot'' healthier, in addition to being able to ``see the mountains in the background because they aren't covered in smog.''. Obama also said the instances of asthma and other respiratory diseases went down after these measures were taken. Peer-reviewed Environmental Protection Agency studies say that the Clean Air Act and subsequent amendments have reduced early deaths associated with exposure to ambient fine particle pollution and ozone, and reduced illnesses such as chronic bronchitis and acute myocardial infarction. The EPA estimates that, between 1970 and 2010, the act and its amendments prevented 365,000 early deaths from particulate matter alone. ``No challenge poses more of a public threat than climate change,'' the President told me. When I asked about the strength of the science supporting the direct relationship between climate change and public health, he said, ``We know as temperatures rise, insect-borne diseases potentially start shifting up. We know, in a very straight-forward fashion, that heatstroke and other heat-related illnesses and deaths potentially increase, and so what we're doing here is to make sure that in addition to public awareness around the potential for big storms like Hurricane Sandy or big wildfires or droughts, that people recognize there's a very personal, potential impact in climate change, and the good news is we can do something about it.''. In many ways, Obama is attempting to reframe the discussion around climate change as a public health issue that affects all of us, while conceding that we don't fully understand the magnitude of the correlation between rising temperatures and impact on human health. When asked what the average American can do about all this, the President encouraged ordinary citizens, doctors and nurses to start putting some pressure on elected officials ``to try and make something happen to reduce the impacts of climate change.'' He also issued a presidential proclamation declaring April 6-12 as National Public Health Week ``to better understand, communicate and reduce the health impacts of climate change on our communities.''. The average American can also do their part to reduce their own carbon footprint, including :. • Change your incandescent light bulbs to compact fluorescent lights. One CFL can reduce up to 1,300 pounds of carbon dioxide pollution during its lifetime. If every house in the U.S. switched its bulbs, we could reduce the electricity spent on lighting by half. • Unplug your gadgets and chargers when not in use. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, this practice can save $ 100 a year on your energy bill. • Use a laptop instead of a desktop. Laptops are designed to be energy-efficient, because battery life is a major factor in their design. According to Energy Star, a laptop can be up to 80 % more energy-efficient than a desktop. • Filter your own water. Beyond the environmental toll of plastic waste, consider just how far your water was transported before you bought it at the grocery store. • Adjust your curtains and thermostats. If you keep your house 2 degrees warmer in the summer and 2 degrees colder in the winter, you can save big bucks on your energy bill. The Department of Energy estimates you can save up to 15 % on your bill by turning off your thermostat when you're not at home. Obama did not appear particularly concerned about the current Supreme Court challenge to the Affordable Care Act. He said he believes the statute is ``clear and straightforward.'' He said, ``I am not anticipating the Supreme Court would make such a bad decision.''. At issue is the 32 states that did not set up their own health care exchanges and left it to the federal government to do so. The plaintiffs in the lawsuit contend that the language of the Affordable Care Act does not allow for tax subsidies in those states ( without state-based exchanges ), possibly creating a situation, for example, in which people in Massachusetts would receive a tax credit, but people living in Texas would not. Obama did tell me that if the Supreme Court challenge is upheld, however, there is no Plan B. ``Millions of people would lose their health insurance. They would no longer be able to afford the health insurance that's being provided out there.''. Obama went on to say, ``I think this is the last gasp of folks who have been fighting against -LSB- the Affordable Care Act -RSB- for ideological reasons.''. He told me that he ``gets letters every day from people who say, `you know what, the Affordable Care Act saved my life or saved my kid's life because I got insurance.'' I thought I was healthy ; turns out I had a tumor, but because I went and got a checkup, it was removed in time, and I'm now cancer-free.'''. He added, ``I think stories like that will be factored in when the Supreme Court takes a look at this case.''. CNN's Ben Tinker contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Five militants from the Kurdistan Workers' Party were killed and another was wounded in clashes with Turkish armed forces in eastern Turkey, the country's military said Saturday. Four Turkish soldiers also were wounded in the fighting that took place in the eastern city of Agri, the armed forces said in a written statement. The Kurdish separatists opened fire from a long distance, targeting Turkish soldiers who were securing an area in Agri ahead of a spring festival, CNN Turk reported. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu condemned the violence and said via Twitter that ``the appropriate answer to the heinous attack in Agri is being given by the Turkish armed forces.''. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan also harshly condemned the attack, describing it as the Kurdish separatists' attempt to ``intervene in the resolution process ( with the Kurds ) in our country.''. Last month, Abdullah Ocalan, longtime leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party ( PKK ), called from his jail cell for the violence to end. In a historic letter, he urged fighters under his command to lay down their arms, stop their war against the Turkish state and join a ``congress'' to focus on the future. Since the first incidents more than three decades ago, an estimated 40,000 lives have been lost. The conflict has been, some say, a battle by activists among Turkey's Kurdish minority for independence. It has been, others say, a guerrilla war by rebels who have punctuated their campaign with terrorist acts. About a fifth of Turkey's population is Kurdish -- a minority long living under cultural oppression, most of them in the underdeveloped southeastern part of Turkey. From Turkish prison, Kurdish leader tells followers to lay down their arms.
Jakarta ( CNN ) An Indonesian court has rejected a bid by two Australian drug smugglers -- members of the ``Bali Nine'' -- to challenge their planned executions. Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran are awaiting death by firing squad on Indonesia's ``execution island'' for their role in a failed 2005 heroin smuggling plot. A panel of three judges in the state administrative court in Jakarta on Monday confirmed an earlier ruling that it lacked the jurisdiction to hear challenges against President Joko Widodo's refusal to grant clemency. Lawyers for the pair had argued that Widodo had failed to individually consider their cases. One of the condemned men's lawyers, Leonard Aritonang, said he was disappointed with the rulings but would respect the court's decision. He said his team would file a further review, asking the Constitutional Court to explain Widodo's obligations regarding granting clemency. ``I'm hoping the government still respects.. any ongoing proceedings,'' he said. Tony Spontana, a spokesman for the Indonesian attorney general's office, told CNN that the state administrative court's ruling was ``a relief.''. ``We had predicted it will be rejected because clemency is a prerogative right of the President, as head of the government, not an object of a suit at the administrative court,'' he said in a message. ``With this decision, it's a step closer towards the scheduled execution.''. Australia has repeatedly appealed for clemency for the pair and has unsuccessfully proposed a prisoner swap with Indonesia as a way of avoiding their deaths. Indonesia has long taken a hard line on drug smugglers, and since assuming office in October, Widodo has made it clear he intends to be tough on those found guilty of such crimes. In an interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour in January, he said there would be ``no compromise'' on drug dealers. ``Indonesia is in a drug emergency, so we need to have something that's firm,'' said Widodo. ``They can ask for amnesty from the President.. But I'm telling you there will be no amnesty for drug dealers.''. In December, six prisoners convicted of drug offenses were killed by firing squad, including five foreigners from Brazil, the Netherlands, Malawi, Nigeria and Vietnam. Chan and Sukumaran have been jailed since April 2005 for a failed bid to smuggle more than 8 kilograms of heroin from Bali to Australia. The Bali Nine were arrested after Indonesian police received a tip from Australian Federal Police. Chan, 31, was called the ringleader of the plot, while Sukumaran was described as Chan's collaborator. Seven other people who participated in the plan are serving lengthy prison sentences. Police caught four people at the Denpasar airport with more than 8 kilograms of heroin strapped to their bodies. Another four -- including Sukumaran -- were arrested at a hotel in the village of Kuta. Chan was detained after boarding a plane to Sydney ; he wasn't carrying any drugs but was named by others as the mastermind of the plot. Opinion : Why executions won't win Indonesia's drug war. Sukumaran and Chan have become model prisoners during their time behind bars, according to fellow inmates and the jail's chief warden. Sukumaran is studying fine arts and has set up a class for fellow inmates. Chan has found spirituality, which he uses to counsel inmates with drug problems. Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has said that their rehabilitation is genuine. Australians have shown public support for the men, with politicians and members of the public turning out for a dawn vigil to demonstrate opposition to the planned executions. Australia lodges formal complaint over Bali Nine transfer. CNN's Euan McKirdy contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A bus collided with a fuel tanker in southern Morocco on Friday, a fiery crash that killed at least 35 people -- most of them children -- state and local media reported. The accident caused a fire that hollowed out the bus, leaving little more than its frame. Debris scattered across the road, while smoke rose into the sky, videos posted to social media show. The dead included athletes traveling for a sporting competition, an eyewitness told 2M TV, a Moroccan state-owned network. After the crash, photos appeared on social media of young, smiling boys in soccer uniforms along with condolence messages such as ``May God have mercy on them'' and ``Oh no, they are so young.''. The crash happened near the city of Tan-Tan just before 7 a.m., the Maghreb Arabe Presse state news agency reported. It said a number of people were also injured. Tan-Tan is near the country's Atlantic coast, more than 450 kilometers ( about 280 miles ) southwest of Marrakesh.
( CNN ) As tourists stroll between Yellowstone's 300 active geysers, taking selfies in front of thousands of bubbling, boiling mud pots and hissing steam vents, they are treading on one of the planet's greatest time bombs. The park is a supervolcano so enormous, it has puzzled geophysicists for decades, but now a research group, using seismic technology to scan its depths, have made a bombshell discovery. Yellowstone's magma reserves are many magnitudes greater than previously thought, say scientists from the University of Utah. Underneath the national park's attractions and walking paths is enough hot rock to fill the Grand Canyon nearly 14 times over. Most of it is in a newly discovered magma reservoir, which the scientists featured in a study published on Thursday in the journal Science. It may help scientists better understand why Yellowstone's previous eruptions, in prehistoric times, were some of Earth's largest explosions in the last few million years. The Utah scientists also created the first three-dimensional depiction of the geothermal structure under Yellowstone, which comprises three parts. Yellowstone's ultimate heat source reaches down 440 to 1,800 miles beneath Earth's surface -- and may come from its molten core. It is responsible for fueling the newly discovered reservoir that lies on top of it. The magma chamber, which scientists already knew about, lies on top of the reservoir -- and draws magma from it. It is a three to nine miles under the surface of the Earth and is what fuels the geysers, steaming puddles and other hot attractions. It alone has a volume 2.5 times that of the Grand Canyon. But those great magma expanses do not mean that the two hellish hollows could overflow the Grand Canyon with molten rock. The overwhelming bulk of their magma cavities comprise scorching -- yet solid -- rock, which is hollow, like sponges, and filled with pockets of liquefied rock. Also, the discovery doesn't mean that there is now more magma than there was before, the scientists say. And they are no signs of an imminent eruption. ``The actual hazard is the same, but now we have a much better understanding of the complete crustal magma system,'' said researcher Robert B. Smith. An eruption in the next few thousand years is extremely unlikely, the USGS says. The Utah scientists put the yearly chance at 1 in 700,000 -- about the odds that you will be struck by lightning. But when it does blow, it probably will change the world. Compared to Yellowstone's past, Mount St. Helens was a picnic, when it covered Washington state with an ash bed about the size of Lake Michigan in 1980. Mount Pinatubo, which exploded in the Philippines in 1991, doesn't begin to scratch the surface of Yellowstone's roar. Nor did Krakatoa in 1883, which killed thousands, and the final explosion of which reportedly ruptured the eardrums of people 40 miles away. To understand the consequences of Yellowstone's previous eruptions, open the history books to 1815, when Mount Tambora blew many cubic miles of debris skyward and killed about 10,000 inhabitants of Indonesia in an instant, according to a report in Smithsonian Magazine. Its dust may have blocked sunlight around the world, chilling the air and dropping the Earth's climate into a frigid phase that garnered the year 1816 the ``year without a summer,'' some climatologists believe. It may have led to frosty crop failures in Europe and North America. Tambora blew 36 cubic miles of debris into the sky. Yellowstone has dwarfed that at least three times, the USGS says. The explosions have left deep scars, and park goers often become familiar with one -- the Yellowstone Caldera, which takes up much of the park and is lined by a roundish mountainous ridge. The caldera is a volcanic crater some 40 - by 25-miles large, left behind when 240 cubic miles of debris ruptured out of the Earth and into the air during volcanic discharge some 630,000 years ago, USGS says. Lava flowed into the breach, filling it, which may account for the lack of a deeper crater. Long before that, 2 million years ago, volcanic activity blew 600 cubic miles of Yellowstone debris into the air. Those were the two largest eruptions in North America in a few million years, the USGS said, and they each buried in ash more than a third of what is now the continental U.S. ``If another large caldera-forming eruption were to occur at Yellowstone, its effects would be worldwide,'' the USGS says. It would drastically shift the world's climate. So, it's no wonder scientists have cast an eye on Yellowstone for a while. The Utah researchers gave the Yellowstone's magma bowels a sort of CT scan, said lead researcher Hsin-Hua Huang. Volcanic activity triggers 2,000 to 3,000 small earthquakes per year, and the shake and shock waves travel at different speeds through molten, hot and other rock. It allowed them to develop a detailed model of the seething expanse beneath Yellowstone that makes it what it is. Here are the upper magma chamber and lower magma reservoir by the numbers. The upper chamber, which caused the historic blasts and is closest to the surface, is 2,500 cubic miles in volume and measures about 19 by 55 miles. The lower reservoir, which has a volume of 11,200 cubic miles, measures about 30 by 44 miles and is about 16 miles thick. Even if the next explosion is many thousands of years away, Yellowstone's cavernous heat tanks poke up an occasionally surprise. The last lava flow was some 70,000 years ago, USGS says. But more recently in 2003, ground temperatures rose high enough to dry out geysers and boil the sap in some trees. A few inches under the surface, thermometers recorded a temperature of 200 degrees Fahrenheit -- nearly hot enough to boil water. So, national park authorities closed Yellowstone to keep people from burning their feet -- or basting their tires on melting roads. Calbuco volcano erupts for first time in more than 40 years. University of Utah seismologists discover magma reservoir under Yellowstone from The University of Utah on Vimeo.
( CNN ) How would you get your nation's president to hear you out ? Put your name and number on a mango and hit him in the head with it ?. No ? Then you're not Marleni Olivo, who did exactly that, and in return is getting the new apartment she was asking for, said Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. Olivo, 54, saw her opportunity when Maduro visited Anzoategui, the state where she lives. Maduro, a former bus driver, drove a bus to a rally Wednesday where he was meeting with supporters. The president had the window open, the better to greet people attending the rally. Olivo had written a message on a mango -- ``If you can, call me,'' -- along with her name and phone number. She got as close as she could and, as the bus passed, she tossed the fruit at Maduro. In a video that has gone viral in Venezuela, Maduro is shown lowering his head when he is hit, just above the left ear. He then calmly picks up the mango and holds it up to the crowd. Later in the evening, the president mentioned the incident in one of his customary live TV broadcasts and displayed the infamous mango as proof. ``Marleni Olivo,'' Maduro said. ``We're going to invite her to my -LSB- TV and radio -RSB- show, `In Touch with Maduro.' She had a housing problem, right ? And, Marleni, I have approved it already, as part of the Great Housing Mission of Venezuela, you will get an apartment and it will be given to you in the next few hours. Tomorrow, no later than the day after tomorrow, we will give it to you.''. Maduro also joked that he had something in common with the mango. The word ``maduro'' in Spanish means ripe. Olivo told local media her intention was to toss the president a note, as others in the crowd were doing. ``I didn't have paper available at that moment,'' she told El Pitazo TV. ``What I had was a mango that I was about to eat because I was hungry.''. Maduro's critics are calling the incident a ``manguicidio,'' a play on the words ``mango'' and ``magnicidio,'' a Spanish word meaning assassination of a powerful leader. In Venezuela's extremely polarized political climate, Maduro frequently talks about his belief that the opposition is conspiring to target him for assassination. But the mango-thrower says she had no evil intent. ``My dream is to own a home before I die,'' she told El Pitazo TV, adding that she had been very ill recently, that she suffers from diabetes and hypertension. And now her dream is about come true, a dream that would not have been possible without her boldness and a little help from a tasty mango.
Paris ( CNN ) Six survivors of the Paris kosher supermarket siege in January are suing a French media outlet for what they call dangerous live broadcasting during the hostage-taking. According to Paris prosecutor's spokeswoman Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre, the lawsuit was filed March 27 and a preliminary investigation was opened by the prosecutor's office Wednesday. The media outlet, CNN affiliate BFMTV, is accused of endangering the lives of the hostages, who were hiding in a cold room during the attack, by broadcasting their location live during the siege. BFM in a statement Friday said one of its journalists ``mentioned only once the presence of a woman hidden inside the Hyper Cacher, on the basis of police sources on the ground.''. ``Immediately, the chief editor felt that this information should not be released. It therefore has subsequently never been repeated on air or posted on-screen. BFMTV regrets that the mention of this information could cause concern to the hostages, as well as their relatives, that their lives were in danger,'' the statement said. Gunman Amedy Coulibaly, also suspected in the slaying of a police officer, stormed the Hyper Cacher Jewish supermarket on January 9, killing four people and taking others hostage. He was killed in the police operation to end the siege. A 24-year-old supermarket employee, Malian-born Lassana Bathily, was hailed as a hero afterward when it emerged that he had risked his life to hide 15 customers from Coulibaly in the cold room. The hostage-taking was the culmination of three days of terror in Paris that began with the January 7 shooting of 12 people at the offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. The two brothers blamed for that attack, Cherif and Said Kouachi, were killed on January 9 after a violent standoff at an industrial site. The terror attacks claimed the lives of 17 people and put France on a heightened state of alert. CNN's Ariana Williams reported from Paris, and Laura Smith-Spark wrote from London. CNN's Pierre Meilhan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A helicopter crash Saturday in Malaysia killed six people, including the nation's former ambassador to the United States and a high-ranking member of the prime minister's staff, the Malaysian state news agency Bernama reported. The helicopter crashed near Kampung Pasir Baru in Semenyih, at 4:55 p.m. Saturday ( 4:55 a.m. ET ), Bernama said. Prime Minister Najib Razak ordered an investigation. Among the victims were Azlin Alias, who worked on the prime minister's staff, and Jamaluddin Jarjis, former Malaysian ambassador to the United States and chairman of PR1MA Malaysia, Bernama said. PR1MA is an organization that develops housing in urban centers. ``We have lost two figures who had made great contributions to the government, party and country in this tragedy,'' Najib told reporters after visiting the crash site. Jamaluddin Jarjis was ``a person of high caliber, who had sacrificed much for the government, party and country,'' he said. ``He had many acquaintances here and abroad.''. The state news agency called Azlin the prime minister's private secretary general, but Najib referred to him as chief of staff. ``Personally he had agreed to leave his career in the corporate sector to serve the government as his national service,'' Najib said. The helicopter's flight recorder has been found in good condition, Bernama reported Sunday, citing police. The news agency said Malaysian civil aviation authorities are expected to release a preliminary report on the crash within seven days. CNN's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Would you want a TV program about your family history to include details of a distant, long-deceased relative who had owned slaves ? Seriously, who in their right mind would want to be tarnished by the sins of an ancestor you had no connection to other than a remote bloodline ? I wouldn't, and neither did Ben Affleck, who lobbied producers of a PBS show, ``Finding Your Roots,'' to remove any reference to his great-great-great grandfather Benjamin Cole, a Georgia slave owner in the mid-1800's, in an episode that looked at Affleck's family history. ( Affleck revealed Cole's name Wednesday night. ). Here's the thing that might surprise many, given the tendency of the media to exploit any potentially scandalous material : The show's producer, Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., apparently acquiesced to Affleck's request, because when the episode aired in October 2014, there was no mention of the star's slave-owning ancestor. Affleck's attempt to alter the content of the program only publicly became known a few days ago after WikiLeaks released hacked emails revealing an exchange between Gates and Sony Pictures chief Michael Lynton. When Gates asked how he should respond to Affleck's request to delete the material, Lynton responded, ``all things being equal, I would definitely take it out.''. And on Tuesday, Affleck, via Facebook, admitted that he had urged Gates to excise any reference to his slave-owning relative. Affleck explained, ``I didn't want any television show about my family to include a guy who owned slaves. I was embarrassed. The very thought left a bad taste in my mouth.''. Now Gates has publicly denied that he made his decision about the content of the program based on Affleck's request, but it seems likely that he did. After all, Affleck noted as much in his Facebook post, writing that Gates ``agreed with me on the slave owner but made other choices I disagreed with.''. And three other celebrities profiled on the series last season were shown to have been related to slave owners. So it's unlikely that it was simply happenstance that it left out any reference to Affleck's familial slave ownership connection. In any event, PBS has launched an internal review to determine if the show violated its own editorial standards. Whatever the results of the review, Affleck and Gates did the right thing. Let's be clear : ``Finding Your Roots'' is not an investigative news show ; it's an entertainment program. In fact, as Affleck noted, much of the material is provided directly by the celebrity being profiled. It's not ``60 Minutes'' but more in the nature of a sophisticated profile of celebrities, using their marquee names to attract viewers. There's not even a hint that Affleck strong-armed the producers or made any type of threats against them if they included the information. In the emails between Gates and Lynton, which they presumably believed at the time were confidential and would remain so, there was no mention of undue pressure by Affleck. Instead, Gates simply noted that Affleck ``asked us to edit out something.''. After the emails were revealed, Gates issued a statement, saying, ``Ultimately, I maintain editorial control on all of my projects and, with my producers, decide what will make for the most compelling program. In the case of Mr. Affleck we focused on what we felt were the most interesting aspects of his ancestry -- including a Revolutionary War ancestor, a third great-grandfather who was an occult enthusiast, and his mother who marched for civil rights during the Freedom Summer of 1964.''. My view would be different if Affleck had a history of uttering racist remarks or engaging in racist conduct. That would have made the information truly newsworthy. But instead we have a man known for championing progressive causes, which I'm sure made him even more acutely sensitive that some on the right might possibly use this information against him in the future. Perhaps that's what Affleck meant in his Facebook post when he wrote that this information made him feel ``vulnerable.''. Affleck has noted that he regrets asking PBS to not include information about his ``distant relative.'' That's a nice gesture, but it was not needed. Affleck had every right to ask for the information about a long-deceased distant relative to be left out of the show. And PBS had the choice to include it or leave it out. I applaud PBS for doing the right thing at a time when media outlets rarely show any restraint on the lives of people in the public eye.
( CNN ) On Thursday, President Barack Obama revealed that a U.S. drone strike had killed Warren Weinstein and Giovanni Lo Porto, two aid workers held hostage on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Al Qaeda had sought to trade the two for prisoners held by the United States and an end to drone strikes. But it is not only terrorist groups that try to reap reward from the taking of hostages -- take the case of Jason Rezaian, The Washington Post's Tehran bureau chief. On April 20, just two days before diplomats resumed talks in Vienna, Austria, to reach a final agreement over Iran's nuclear program, Rezaian's Iranian attorney announced that his client had been charged with espionage, conducting propaganda, collaborating with foreign governments and collecting information ``with malicious intent.'' The State Department, Rezaian's employers at The Washington Post and fellow journalists reacted with outrage. Their anger is justified, but the decision should surprise no one : There is a long history of rogue regimes seizing hostages against the backdrop of diplomacy to extract concessions, humiliate the United States or signal unease. The scale of Iran's current hostage-taking -- not only Rezaian but also Iranian-Americans Saeed Abedini and Amir Hekmati -- may pale in comparison with Iranian behavior of decades past. But the use of hostages to extract concessions or dampen the enthusiasm surrounding reconciliation is part of a consistent pattern. Consider the original Iran hostage seizure : On November 4, 1979, radical students seized the American Embassy in Tehran, ultimately holding 52 diplomats hostage for 444 days. Often forgotten was what sparked that episode, which occurred more than nine months after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini declared the Islamic revolution victorious. The problem was a rush to reconcile : At a November 1, 1979, Algiers reception, Zbigniew Brzezinski, President Jimmy Carter's national security adviser, met Iranian Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan. According to Brzezinski's own memoir, he told Bazargan that the United States was open to any relationship the Islamic republic wanted. Photos of their handshake graced newspapers around the world. Iranian hardliners, meanwhile, were apoplectic that Barzagan was ``betraying'' Iran's revolutionary principles, and seized the embassy to block any rapprochement. Khomeini endorsed their action. ``Our young people must foil these plots,'' he reportedly said. The hostages became pawns in an escalating series of demands. Brzezinski's dream of reconciliation became a nightmare. Iran released the embassy hostages as Ronald Reagan took his oath of office, ending its first but not last hostage-taking episode. Iranian proxies seized a number of Americans in Lebanon. Reagan blessed a plan to trade arms for hostages. Putting aside the illegalities of diverting weaponry to the Nicaraguan Contras, the genesis of the scheme was not only a desire for diplomacy but also, much as with Obama's outreach today, to solidify the moderate camp within the Iranian political spectrum. Initially, the scheme worked, but no sooner had American officials delivered the last load of military equipment and the last hostages set free, then kidnappers seized three more Americans. Hostage-taking had simply become another way to collect concessions. Of course, Iran is not alone in such games. Whenever the United States tries to use diplomacy to bring rogue regimes in from the cold, it faces hostage crises. Take North Korea : Obama campaigned as the anti-Bush on the world stage. ``The notion that somehow not talking to countries is punishment to them.. is ridiculous,'' Obama, then a senator, declared in July 2007. Obama hadn't even marked two months in office when North Korea detained two journalists working for Al Gore's Current TV. A kangaroo court sentenced Laura Ling and Euna Lee to 12 years in prison. It was traditional hostage diplomacy. Former President Bill Clinton traveled to Pyongyang to appeal for their release. North Korean leader Kim Jong Il used the episode to solidify the position of his third son and designated successor, Kim Jong Un. North Korea's police force put out word that ``General Kim Jong Un's artifice let former U.S. President Clinton cross the Pacific to apologize to the Great Leader. It was all made possible thanks to General Kim Jong Un's extraordinary prophecy and outstanding tactics.'' North Korea's deputy foreign minister confided that the groundwork for the episode had been planned long in advance. Ling and Lee were neither the first nor the last Americans that North Korea seized during the Obama era. After North Korea torpedoed a South Korean ship, killing 46, Obama sought North Korea's censure in the U.N. Security Council. Pyongyang responded by threatening Aijalon Mahli Gomes, an American imprisoned earlier that year for illegally entering North Korea. On cue, former President Jimmy Carter arrived to mediate for Gomes' release, called for new talks and, by omission, derailed efforts to hold North Korea accountable for its killing of nearly four dozen South Korean sailors. The pattern would repeat in 2012 when North Korea seized Kenneth Bae, an American whom Kim Jong Un sought to leverage into concessions. The following year, North Korea arrested an 85-year-old Korean War veteran touring the hermit kingdom and, the next year, took two other tourists hostage. Each arrest resulted in a high-level visit, an apology to North Korea that bolstered the dear leader's claims of strength and renewed engagement. Saddam Hussein likewise worked from the same playbook. In March 1995, Iraqi security forces seized two American defense contractors who strayed into Iraq from Kuwait. Sentenced to eight years, they served 114 days before Rep. Bill Richardson, D-New Mexico, a close Clinton ally ( and future Cabinet-level U.N. ambassador ) flew to Baghdad to retrieve them. The American media lauded Richardson, but his trip was not without cost : Saddam used it to depict Iraq as strong and America as weak. ``President Saddam Hussein.. accepts the pleas by Bill Clinton, the Congress and American people,'' the Iraqi News Agency reported. And so did the Taliban. Fifteen years before Obama traded alleged American deserter Bowe Bergdahl for five high-value Taliban and alleged al Qaeda operatives imprisoned at Guantanamo Bay, the Taliban arrested two Americans female missionaries. Their detention -- and threatened death sentence -- came against the backdrop of Clinton-era attempts to negotiate with and perhaps even normalize relations with the Taliban ; the Taliban, too, knew how holding Americans captive could even the playing field or even represent leverage for new concessions. So what does Iran's hostage brinkmanship portend ? Diplomats drink their own Kool-Aid, and convince themselves that their engagement can bring rogues in from the cold. Ego, ambition and arrogance convince presidents that the failure of past diplomacy rests with their predecessors rather than adversaries. Hostages such as Rezaian are canaries in the coal mine, however. Their captivity -- not suave officials and their smooth promises -- show both the true character of the regime and its disregard for the norms of diplomacy.
( CNN ) Given that most people couldn't tell the difference between a copyright and a trademark, it usually takes something controversial, such as the Washington Redskins' refusal to change their name, to get people interested in trademark law. This week, a higher court scrutinized a lesser-known trademark -- when the band The Slants sought to protect its name. The Slants are five Asian-American musicians from Portland, Oregon, who pay homage to the'80s on stage -- and homage to their heritage in an ironic way. ``We want to take on stereotypes that people have about us, like the slanted eyes, and own them,'' Simon Shiao Tam, the band's front-man, said. In other words, the group adopted the Lenny Bruce philosophy of repeating an insulting term until it doesn't mean anything anymore. To The Slants, ``slant'' isn't an insult, it is empowering. And more power to them. Unfortunately, a bureaucrat at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office decided that ``Slant'' was disparaging to Asians, and denied them a trademark registration under the despised ( by me, anyhow ) Section 2 ( a ) of the trademark act. This is the section that lets the government deny trademark protection to a mark that is ``immoral,'' ``scandalous'' or ``disparaging.'' In this case, the latter. But wait a minute. This isn't billionaire Dan Snyder referring to other people as ``Redskins.'' In L'affair Redskins, it is the disparaged group, Native Americans, who are complaining -- not the government deciding on its own that it knows best. In the Slants' case, these are Asian guys who say ``it doesn't bother us, so why should it bother you ?'' And it isn't as if any Asian American groups got involved. This is not the first time that someone has ``taken back'' a marginalizing term in a trademark fight. About 10 years ago, the motorcycle club ``Dykes on Bikes'' was similarly rebuffed, and they fought back and won the right to protect their mark. They made similar arguments that resonated : If they wanted to call themselves ``Dykes on Bikes,'' then what place does the government have in judging that decision ?. In another decision, the trademark office initially denied a registration for Buddha Beachwear on the grounds that Buddhists would find it disparaging. But on reconsideration, the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board held that it should go forward stating it is ``imperative that the board be careful to avoid interposing its own judgment for that of Buddhists.''. So why aren't the Slants given the same privileges as Dykes on Bikes or Buddha Beachwear ? It is largely a sign of the times. We find ourselves mired deeper and deeper in a society where people actually get excited to take offense at virtually anything. Given the lingering controversy over the Redskins' trademark, our five friends from Oregon didn't stand a chance. This decision offends me. For starters, by trying to protect Asians from racism, the court issued a disturbingly racist decision based on the fact that these were, in fact, Asians who intended their band name to invoke their ethnicity. But, if a Sicilian ( like me ) were to seek to register the same exact name, with no such intent, I would enjoy that privilege. This isn't quite Korematsu v. United States ( the decision that authorized putting Asians in internment camps ), but the decision is quite unprincipled. Even worse, this decision gets the First Amendment wrong. The majority opinion almost flippantly discards the Constitutional issues as much ado about nothing. Essentially it says, ``we did it this way before, so we are going to keep doing it this way.'' Your Constitution got stepped on before, and who are we to take our feet off of it ?. If you're not upset by now, you should be. Well, the court does give us a sort-of dissent styled as ``additional views.'' While not binding, some of our most cherished First Amendment rights grew from the tiny seeds planted by the dissents of Oliver Wendell Holmes. The dissent in this case recognizes the fact that trademarks are commercial speech, which is protected by the First Amendment. It also notes that the government should not be in the business of giving out or withholding benefits on the basis of the content of the recipient's speech. This is known as the doctrine of ``unconstitutional conditions.''. Since Section 2 ( a ) discriminates against First Amendment protected expression on the basis of its content, the court has called for 2 ( a ) to be, finally, deemed unconstitutional. But, for some reason, it declined to actually go that far. It merely suggested it, without so ruling. And people wonder why my hair is falling out. I guess I will start a protest band and call them ``The Guinea Pigs.'' But, I won't be allowed to register that trademark -- although the five Asian guys from The Slants could. Maybe we should just each register the other band's marks, and trade them after we get past the bureaucrats at the trademark office.
( CNN ) Sofia Vergara's ex-fiance is speaking out about their dispute over frozen embryos created while they dated. In an op-ed published by The New York Times on Wednesday, Nick Loeb explained his rationale for fighting to keep the two female embryos he shares with the actress. ``I wanted to keep this private, but recently the story broke to the world,'' Loeb wrote. ``It has gotten attention not only because of the people involved -- my ex is Sofia Vergara, who stars in the ABC series ``Modern Family'' -- but also because embryonic custody disputes raise important questions about life, religion and parenthood.''. Loeb says he met the actress in 2010 and they got engaged two years later, at which point they decided to create the embryos and conceive a child via a surrogate. After two attempts failed to bring fertilized embryos to term, they created two more embryos using her eggs and his sperm. ``When we create embryos for the purpose of life, should we not define them as life, rather than as property ?,'' he said.''.. A woman is entitled to bring a pregnancy to term even if the man objects. Shouldn't a man who is willing to take on all parental responsibilities be similarly entitled to bring his embryos to term even if the woman objects ?''. Loeb said he filed a complaint against the 42-year-old actress to prevent her from destroying their two embryos conceived through in vitro fertilization. He filed it in August in Santa Monica, California, where they apparently lived while they dated. ``We signed a form stating that any embryos created through the process could be brought to term only with both parties' consent. The form did not specify -- as California law requires -- what would happen if we separated,'' he said.'' I am asking to have it voided.''. Representatives for Vergara have declined to comment in the past. Loeb has said he believes ``life begins at fertilization'' and wants to implant the embryos in a surrogate and bring them to term. He said he doesn't want any money from the egg donor. The case has led to questions about who has the right to embryos. Typically, a prior legal agreement between a couple spells out who has ultimate authority, said fertility specialist Dr. David Tourgeman, who's not involved in this case. ``Usually when embryos are created, whether the couple is married or just consenting adults, there's usually a power of attorney that is described to these embryos, if they are frozen for future use,'' he said. In most cases, the mother or the origin of the egg is given power of attorney, although anyone can make a request, Tourgeman said. If there's a disagreement, the courts usually get involved to decide who legally owns the embryos, he said. Vergara is now reportedly engaged to actor Joe Manganiello.
Aden, Yemen ( CNN ) The streets were empty but not quiet. Shelling began to boom through the Yemeni city of Aden on Thursday afternoon as we hurried back to board the boat that had brought us here from Djibouti. Aden is a city gripped by fear, desperation and want. People line up for bread, they line up for cooking fuel, and the electricity only works a few hours a day. And from late afternoon onward, most people stay indoors. That is the time of the shelling, the daily aerial bombardment. How we got to Yemen : 30 dangerous hours in a boat. Saudi Arabia began airstrikes on Houthi rebels in Yemen three weeks ago Thursday. But Aden remains a city not fully in the hands either of Houthi rebels or forces loyal to the ousted government of President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi. Everyone we spoke to Thursday told us the same thing : Living in Aden these days is terrifying. We visited a hospital where doctors have given up trying to count the dead and the dying who are brought in. Officials said they believe the toll of the dead runs into the hundreds. Everywhere, we felt, saw, heard and smelled the desperation. We spoke to some of the loyalist military commanders. They said they felt they were pushing back the Houthi forces. The Houthis forced Hadi from power in January, though Hadi still claims to be Yemen's legitimate leader and is working with the Saudis and other allies to return to Yemen. Those allied with Hadi have accused the Iranian government of supporting the Houthis in their uprising in Yemen. ' A window into hell' : Desperate Yemenis flee Saudi airstrikes by boat. Since Saudi Arabia began aerial raids March 26, it has launched more than 1,200 airstrikes. Saudi officials said they have killed more than 500 Houthi rebels. But the reality is that a good portion of the armaments the Saudis send in on guided parachutes fall instead into Houthi hands. There is, to be sure, a sense that three weeks into this operation, the Saudis are making some headway with the strikes. But given how far along they are into the operation, the expectation would have been -- especially given the aerial cover the Saudis are providing for loyalist forces on the ground -- that the Houthi forces would have been pushed further back. That hasn't happened. Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen ?. The government loyalists have gained territory ; that is why we were able to dock. There is an area around one of the smaller ports that is reliably in government hands. But Aden's main port will be hugely strategic for any potential ground incursion. Those forces will need to be reinforced and supplied through somewhere -- and the port is at the top of the list. Given that control of the city is still divided, there is a feeling that not enough of what the Saudis set out to do has been accomplished. The loyalists were frank with us. We are outgunned, they said. We are fighting a force that is superior to us in terms of its arms, tanks and artillery. ``We're fighting them with automatic machine guns,'' the loyalists told us. ``Those reinforcements aren't getting in to us in time.''. CNN's Don Melvin in London contributed to this report.
( CNN ) An Alaska Airlines flight was forced to make an emergency landing Monday after its pilot reported hearing unusual banging. Flight 448, which had been bound for Los Angeles, returned to Seattle. Upon landing, a ramp agent was discovered inside the front cargo hold, according to a statement from the airline. The agent, who is an employee of Alaska contractor Menzies Aviation, told authorities he had fallen asleep, the statement said. He appeared to be in OK condition. The cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled. The plane was also only in the air for 14 minutes, Alaska Airlines said. CNN affiliate KOMO spoke to Marty Collins, a passenger on the plane. ``We just took off for L.A. regular and then about, oh, about five minutes into the flight the captain came on and said we were going back and we'd land within five to seven minutes, and we did,'' Collins said. ``When we landed was when all the trucks and the police and the fire trucks surrounded the plane.''. The agent was taken to an area hospital as a precaution. He passed a drug test and was discharged, Alaska Airlines said. He'd been on a four-person team loading baggage onto the flight. All ramp employees have security badges, and undergo full criminal background checks before being hired, said Alaska Airlines. A total of 170 passengers and six crew members were on Flight 448. After returning to Seattle, the aircraft took off again, arriving in Los Angeles on Monday evening.
( CNN ) A gunman walked into a building on the campus of Wayne Community College in Goldsboro, North Carolina, on Monday and shot the school's print shop operator, killing him, authorities said. The school was placed on lockdown, and the gunman remains at large. All buildings have been cleared, Maj. Tom Effler of the Wayne County Sheriff's Office said. ``This is not a random situation. It is an isolated situation,'' he said. The victim, Ron Lane, was a longtime employee. The suspected gunman, identified by law enforcement as 20-year-old Kenneth Morgan Stancil III, worked at one time for the victim and is a former student at the school. The Goldsboro Police Department described Stancil as ``armed and dangerous.''. ``This is indeed a sad day for Wayne Community College and this close family and community,'' school President Kay Albertson said. ``Our hearts are heavy at the loss of an employee -- a valued employee -- and we will soon be reaching out to the family.''. She praised the ``rapid response from the city, the county, the state and the federal first responders,'' who are ``working diligently to apprehend the suspect.''. The shooting took place on the third floor of a campus building. Despite earlier reports, the victim was not killed inside the library, Albertson said. While authorities were clearing out rooms, they deployed tear gas into a restroom someone was in, Effler said. The person inside turned out not to be the suspect. Figures from fall 2013 show the two-year school with a student population of 3,837, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, with slightly more than half the students part-time. Crime statistics from the center's website show no killings, assaults, robberies or motor vehicle thefts between 2011 and 2013. There were three arrests for illegal weapons possession in 2012 and three in 2013.
Tripoli, Libya ( CNN ) Smugglers lure Arab and African migrants by offering discounts to get onto overcrowded ships if people bring more potential passengers, a CNN investigation has revealed. A smuggler in the Libyan capital of Tripoli laid bare the system for loading boats with poor and desperate refugees, during a conversation that a CNN producer secretly filmed. The conversation, recorded using a mobile phone, exposes the prices and incentives used to gather as many migrants as possible onto ships. An estimated 1,600 migrants have died so far this year on the dangerous Mediterranean crossing, but still more wait to try to reach Europe. CNN's producer was introduced to a Senegalese and Malian smuggler by an intermediary in Tripoli, who mistakenly thought she was a Syrian looking to bring other Syrian refugees with her onto boats to Italy. Why I fled : Migrants share their stories. The smuggler took her to an unfinished building on the outskirts of Tripoli near the city's many ports, where the migrants they have already found are kept until the crossing is ready. The building could only be reached by walking down a trash-littered alleyway, and featured a series of packed rooms, separated by curtains, where dozens sat -- well over the 80 migrants she was promised would be in her boat. The smuggler explained that the ``final price'' for Syrians -- often thought to be richer than their African migrant counterparts -- was $ 1,000. He added that for each Syrian she brought with her, the producer would get a $ 100 discount. So if she brought 10, she could travel free. He explained how the ``discount'' was ``well known,'' suggesting perhaps it was part of the unwritten rules that govern the trade and why so many migrants come to each boat. Any fears about the crossing were supposed to be allayed by the smuggler insisting the boats they used had new motors, and that the Senegalese pilot would have a satellite telephone and GPS to assist the crossing. He also assured CNN's producer, when asked, that if the people became too many, they would use two boats. Pregnant women among migrants trying to cross.
( CNN ) Would you build a house with water ?. Hungarian architect Matyas Gutai believes that water is the perfect material for keeping a house at a comfortable temperature. And while that doesn't mean that he can do away with traditional materials like bricks, cement, and plaster, his system promotes a whole new idea of engineering. Gutai built a prototype house in his hometown of Kecskemet, south of Budapest, with his high school friend Milan Berenyi, after years of research and development. The house was built with a grant from the EU, and showcases the ``liquid engineering'' concepts Gutai has written about extensively. Panels, some of steel, and some of glass, make up the structure of the house and a sheet of water is trapped between the inner layers, which equalizes the temperature across the building. The house is actually able to reheat itself, when its hot excess heat is stored either in the foundations of the building or in external storage, to be brought back to the walls when the temperature drops. The indoor temperature can also be modified using a monitoring system similar to central heating. This is a very efficient and sustainable system : the house can produce its own energy and be more independent of energy suppliers, which could reduce carbon emissions. ``Our panel can heat and cool the building itself -- the water inside the panel does the very same job as heating,'' says Gutai. ``It saves energy, when you compare it to a similar building with large glass surfaces -- it's a very clean and sustainable solution.''. While studying sustainable architecture at the University of Tokyo, in 2003, Gutai got the idea for his water house from a visit to the open air hot baths. Despite the snowfall outside the pool, Gutai remained comfortably warm inside it -- it was then he realized the importance of water's surface temperature and its potential use in architecture. ``As an architect I think it's really important that this building tries to redefine permanence, which has been a key concept in architecture for thousands of years. Our approach to permanence hasn't changed much at all, but now instead of making something very strong that tries to resist everything, we are making something that adapts to its environment. ``Architecture is really changing in our time. We've reached our limits when it comes to solid architecture, now it's reasonable to look for a new system.''. ``This research dates back seven or eight years,'' explains Gutai. ``I started it at the University of Tokyo and it took us almost six years to get the building done. There are plenty of structural problems involved -- a lot of important questions were raised such as what happens if it's so cold outside that the water freezes or what happens when one panel breaks.''. ``We now mix the water with natural solvents, that do not cause pollution but lower the freezing temperature to an acceptable level. This practically means, that even if the reheating technology fails, the water can not freeze.''. ``In case of cold climates, like in Hungary, we also add some external insulation to the structure, to protect it from freezing.''. And if a panel were to break ? ``We designed special joint units. The joint elements allow slow flow, but block faster flows,'' he explains. This means that if one panel breaks, it will be sealed from the remaining ones instantly. This effect is based on fluid dynamics, and not computers or monitoring system -- which minimizes the chance of failure. Gutai has worked in cooperation with universities and manufacturers to make sure the building is viable, and while the prototype house is only a small space ( eight square meters in total ) it demonstrates the power of this new technology. ``Our goal should be to use less energy and materials, and take cities off-grid as much as possible. The water house is one way to do that,'' said Gutai, who currently works as a researcher at Feng Chia University in Taiwan. Constructing houses in this way is moderately more expensive than traditional designs, but this prototype aims to slash our energy needs and Gutai is working with factories and companies across Europe on projects using this technology. To make water the building material of a greener future.
Rome ( CNN ) The Italian navy has boarded and retaken control of a fishing boat that had been seized hours earlier by gunmen off the coast of Sicily, the Italian military said Friday. The boat, named Airone, was intercepted some 90 kilometers ( 56 miles ) from the Libyan port of Misrata, according to a statement from the Italian Joint Forces. An Italian naval unit boarded the fishing boat and took custody of a Libyan soldier on the vessel, according to a statement by the Italian Navy. It said during the operation, rifle shots were accidentally fired, and one of the seven fisherman on board was slightly injured. The Airone, carrying three Sicilians and four Tunisians, had embarked from Mazara del Vallo in Sicily five days earlier to fish for shrimp. The Airone's captain said there were about 10 other ships in the area when it was seized, according to Vito Mazzarino, the boat's owner. ``At a certain point a tug boat came up and flanked the fish boat and some Libyans came on board,'' Mazzarino said, quoting the captain, Alberto Figuccia. ``They were armed. And at that point chaos erupted.''. Italy is a major gateway to Europe for migrants from North Africa. Thousands of people each year make the dangerous sea journey from North Africa to Europe's Mediterranean coast, to flee war and poverty. Italy registered more than 10,000 migrants in the first three months of 2015, according to the International Organization for migration. On Monday, gunmen on a speedboat fired shots in the air and sped away with a wooden boat that was being used to transport migrants, according to Frontex, the European Union's border management agency. That incident occurred 60 nautical miles from the Libyan coast. The 250 migrants on board had already been transferred on to a different boat, Frontex said on its website. ``This is a sign that smugglers in Libya are running short of boats and are more willing to use weapons to recover those used to transport the migrants,'' said Fabrice Leggeri, Frontex's executive director, in a news release. Italian police : Muslim migrants threw Christians overboard.
( CNN ) So, you'd like a ``Full House'' reunion and spinoff ? You got it, dude !. Co-star John Stamos announced Monday night on ``Jimmy Kimmel Live'' that Netflix has ordered up a reunion special, followed by a spinoff series called ``Fuller House.''. The show will feature Candace Cameron Bure, who played eldest daughter D.J. Tanner in the original series -- which aired from 1987 to 1995 -- as the recently widowed mother of three boys. ``It's sort of a role reversal, and we turn the house over to her,'' Stamos told Kimmel. Jodie Sweetin, who played Stephanie Tanner in the original series, and Andrea Barber, who portrayed D.J.'s best friend Kimmy Gibbler, will both return for the new series, Netflix said. Stamos will produce and guest star. Talks with co-starsBob Saget, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, Dave Coulier and Lori Loughlin are ongoing, Netflix said. The show will be available next year, Netflix said. ``As big fans of the original Full House, we are thrilled to be able to introduce Fuller House's new narrative to existing fans worldwide, who grew up on the original, as well as a new generation of global viewers that have grown up with the Tanners in syndication,'' Netflix Vice President of Original Content Cindy Holland said in a statement. The show starts with Tanner -- now named Tanner-Fuller ( get it.. Fuller ? ) -- pregnant, recently widowed and living in San Francisco. Her younger sister Stephanie -- now an aspiring musician -- and her lifelong best friend and fellow single mom, Kimmy, move in to help her care for her two boys and the new baby. On Monday, Barber tweeted Cameron Bure to ask whether she was ready to resume their onscreen friendship. ``We never stopped,'' Cameron Bure tweeted back. Fans were over the moon at the news.
( CNN ) Wednesday's game between the Baltimore Orioles and Chicago White Sox will be closed to the public, the Orioles announced Tuesday. The closed-door contest follows the postponements of Monday's and Tuesday's games against the White Sox until a doubleheader scheduled for May 28 following unrest in Baltimore. A source within Major League Baseball told CNN the league is not aware of any prior closed-door games in major league history. The game at Oriole Park at Camden Yards is scheduled to begin at 2:05 p.m. ET. The game will be televised on the MASN regional cable network. ``After conferring with local officials, it was determined that Wednesday afternoon's game should be played without fan admittance in order to minimize safety concerns,'' Major League Baseball said. The office of new Commissioner Rob Manfred said the league and Orioles will keep an eye on the situation in Baltimore. ``Our thoughts are with all those who have been affected by violence in Baltimore, and everyone in our game hopes for peace and the safety of a great American city,'' Manfred said. Hall of Famer Frank Thomas tweeted that the series should be moved to a later date. The former White Sox star said, ``Playing in front of a empty house makes no sense !!''. The game changes come as the situation in the city remains tense following Monday's riots, with more protests and arrests Tuesday. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said the closed game will mean ``another sad day in our city.''. ``We're a sports town. We love our O's,'' Rawlings-Blake told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. The Orioles said tickets from Monday's postponed game can be used for admittance on May 28. Fans with tickets for Tuesday's game must exchange them for tickets for any remaining home game, including May 28. The team also announced it would move three games ( May 1-3 ) against the Tampa Bay Rays to Florida. The Orioles will still be the home team, the team said. Fans with tickets for those games and Wednesday's contest can swap their tickets for future games, based on the dollar amount of the ticket. Exchanges must be completed by June 30, the team said. The Orioles have averaged more than 33,000 fans in their first nine games at Camden Yards this season, about 73 % of capacity. According to MLB.com, games have been postponed in the past because of security concerns. In 1992, four Los Angeles Dodgers games were pushed back because of riots after the acquittals of police officers in the Rodney King case. In 1967, riots in Detroit prompted baseball officials to move games between the Tigers and the Orioles to Baltimore. Opening Day of 1968 was postponed for two days after the killing of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.. After the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, all professional baseball was called off for one week. ESPN anchor and baseball expert Keith Olbermann tweeted that a September 1882 game hosted by Worcester had six fans come, the lowest spectator turnout for a major league game. CNN's Jill Martin, Dave Close and Theodore Schleifer contributed to this report.
( CNN ) As Saudi forces pounded southern Yemen with a fresh series of airstrikes Wednesday, Houthi rebels called for peace talks. The U.N.-sponsored talks should resume ``but only after a complete halt of attacks,'' Houthi spokesman Mohammed Abdulsalam said in a Facebook post. The previous round of talks between Houthi rebels and the government of Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi failed in January after rebels attacked the President's personal residence and presidential palace in Sanaa, the Yemeni capital. On Tuesday, Saudi Arabia announced the end of its Operation Decisive Storm, a nearly monthlong air campaign against Houthi positions. The Saudi-led coalition said a new initiative was underway, Operation Renewal of Hope, focused on the political process. But less than 24 hours later, after rebel forces attacked a Yemeni government military brigade, the airstrikes resumed, according to security sources in Taiz. Five airstrikes targeted a weapons depot in the province late Wednesday, two Taiz security officials said. Explosions lasted for about 40 minutes, they said. It was unclear whether it was a resumption of the operation or a short-term series of strikes. Meanwhile, Houthis released Yemeni Defense Minister Mahmoud al-Subaihi in Sanaa on Wednesday, according to a senior Saudi source speaking on condition of anonymity. The Houthis had said they detained the defense minister at an air base near the Yemeni port city of Aden on March 26, shortly before the Saudis began their airstrike campaign. The rebels captured the base that day as part of an advance on the Aden area. The United Nations demanded al-Subaihi's release earlier this month. Saudi Arabia and its coalition partners launched airstrikes on Houthi positions across Yemen starting on March 26, hoping to wipe out the Iranian-allied rebel group that overthrew the government and seized power. The Saudis say they want to restore the Yemeni government -- a key U.S. ally in the fight against al Qaeda -- which was kicked out of the capital by the rebels earlier this year. This month, Saudi officials said airstrikes have degraded Houthi-controlled military infrastructure, including key buildings in Sanaa. The campaign achieved its objectives ``by a very good planning, very precise execution, by the courage of our pilots, our sailors, our soldiers,'' said Brig. Gen. Ahmed Asiri, a Saudi military spokesman. A senior Saudi official told CNN that the Houthis agreed to ``nearly all demands'' of the U.N. Security Council. Former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh and his family will leave Yemen and never return for a position in politics, the source said. A statement from the Saudi Embassy in Washington outlined objectives of the next phase of operations, including protecting civilians, enhancing humanitarian and medical assistance, confronting terrorism and creating an international coalition to provide maritime security. Ground troops will continue to protect the border and confront any attempts to destabilize the situation, Asiri said. Military action will be taken if needed. Houthi leader : `Anyone who thinks we will surrender is dreaming'. But beyond the military campaign, the Saudis and their allies have said they want to find a political solution for the violence-plagued nation. The aim is to bring back ``security and stability through establishing a political process,'' said a statement from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait. Hadi, who claims he's Yemen's legitimate leader, thanked the Saudi-led coalition. He is working with the Saudis and other allies to return to his country. ``We promise to restructure the Yemen military to ensure that it serves the people of Yemen,'' Hadi said, calling on the Houthis to withdraw, and saying that he would return to Yemen at ``the right time'' to rebuild the country. ``You will witness many changes in the days to come in our mission to build an institutional government and military, far from rebel militancy,'' said Hadi. In the country's south, security officials on Wednesday reported two U.S. drone strikes against al Qaeda militants in Mukalla. Six suspected militants died in the attack. This is the second drone strike in three days. On Monday, six militants were killed when drone strikes targeted two vehicles in Shabwah, west of Mukalla. A U.S. military official told CNN on Tuesday that the United States is conducting ``manned reconnaissance'' off Yemen. The official stressed that the repositioning of U.S. ships over the last few days was not done to interdict Iranian ships, but to ensure freedom of navigation and maritime security. Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen ?. CNN's Nic Robertson, Salim Essaid, Jethro Mullen, Tim Lister, Anas Hamdan, Jamie Crawford and journalist Hakim Almasmari contributed to this report.
( CNN ) 38 and home. The Kentucky Wildcats' bid for perfection ended Saturday night at the hands of the Wisconsin Badgers, who rallied for a tough 71-64 victory in the NCAA men's basketball Final Four at Indianapolis. They will meet four-time national champ Duke in Monday night's title game. The Blue Devils dominated Michigan State 81-61 in the first contest of the night. National player of the year finalist Frank Kaminsky led Wisconsin with 20 points and 11 rebounds. Junior forward Sam Dekker added 16 points. ``These guys just gutted it out.,'' Wisconsin Head Coach Bo Ryan said. ``We just kept battling on every possession.''. Freshman Karl-Anthony Towns led Kentucky with 16 points. Sophomore Andrew Harrison chipped in 13 points while Aaron Harrison had 12 points. Kentucky came into the game as the first men's team to have a 38-0 record. But the Badgers fought back from a 60-56 deficit with 6:39 left in the game. Wisconsin went on an 8-0 run to regain a lead it never relinquished. It will be looking to win its first title since 1941. As the final minutes ticked off, the Wildcats failed to score. They were stuck on 60 for five minutes. The Harrison twins, who shot well in the first half, couldn't get much done offensively. ``I didn't execute. I mean, we didn't execute as a team, but me being the point guard, I didn't do what coach told me to on a couple of occasions,'' Andrew Harrison said at the postgame news conference. His coach sternly interjected. ``He did fine. He did fine,'' John Calipari said. Meanwhile, Dekker stepped up, making a layup, a three-pointer and a free throw as the Badgers scooted ahead. Calipari said the Badgers did a good job defending the Kentucky big men. ``They crowded us a little bit, and ( our ) guys got a little tentative,'' he said. Calipari looked at the stat sheet : Kentucky had only six turnovers, hit 90 % of its free throws, made 48 % of its field goals, and lost. He said his team struggled to guard Wisconsin's players, and the rebound battle -- which Wisconsin won by 12 -- was crucial. Kamisky, who turned 22 on Saturday, was asked how the Badgers outrebounded a team that is the tallest in basketball. ``We stayed into them, attacking them, trying to do whatever we can,'' he said. ``Just trying to keep them off the glass was one of our main priorities.''. Freshman Justise Winslow led Duke with 19 points while national freshman of the year Jahlil Okafor had 18 points, 10 of which came in the first half. Senior guard Quinn Cook had 17. ``The defense was terrific,'' Duke Head Coach Mike Krzyzewski said. ``We drove the ball with such strength. I actually think our offense gave our defense a push.''. Junior guard Denzel Valentine sparked the Spartans with three early three-pointers and finished with 22 points and a game-high 11 rebounds. Senior guard Travis Trice had 16 points. The Spartans, of the Big Ten, began the game in a higher gear than Duke, and quickly took an eight-point lead. But after Valentine hit his trio of long-range shots and Michigan State led 14-6, the Spartans struggled to get baskets the rest of the first half. ``They did a good job of denying us and forcing us out ( farther from the basket ). We took some bad shots,'' Valentine said. Duke occasionally used a 2-3 zone defense that protected some of its players with foul concerns and slowed the Spartans down. But it was when Duke played man-to-man that the Spartans really had a hard time scoring. State made five of its first seven shots, then only made three more in the final 16 minutes of the opening half. The Blue Devils, of the Atlantic Coast Conference, found baskets inside as the 6-foot-11, 270-pound Okafor powered for points around the basket. Winslow used his quickness to score seven points in the first half, but he only played 12 minutes because he committed two fouls. Duke led at halftime 36-25, a turnaround of 19 points from its early deficit. ``Coach always stresses that great defense leads to great offense,'' Cook said. The confidence gained in getting defensive stops led to the desire for Duke players to drive the lane instead of shooting three-pointers. ``We saw seams that we could take advantage of,'' Cook said. In the second half, Duke increased its lead to 20 points, then cruised home. The Spartans were never able to cut the deficit to single digits and Duke sank its free throws in the final minutes. ``We got beat and.. Duke played awfully well, but I thought it wasn't one of our better games,'' Michigan State head coach Tom Izzo said. The Blue Devils apparently like playing in Final Fours in Indianapolis, home of the NCAA. It won titles there in 1991 and 2010. The other two crowns came in 1992 and 2001, each in Minneapolis. Duke has beaten Wisconsin this season, 80-70 in Wisconsin in December. If Duke wins Monday night, it would tie Indiana and North Carolina for third-most NCAA championships with five.
Washington ( CNN ) A 54-year-old man carrying a suspicious package scaled a White House fence Sunday night, but was quickly apprehended. Jerome R. Hunt, of Hayward, California, climbed the fence on the south side of the White House complex about 10:25 p.m., said Brian Leary with the United States Secret Service. According to a source with knowledge of the investigation, the man made it 10 to 15 feet in on the South Lawn but ``was compliant'' once he saw the dogs ready to engage with thim. Hunt is in custody and charges are pending, Leary said. The package was being examined and later deemed to be harmless, a Secret Service source told CNN. Last week, a U.S. official told CNN that temporary steel spikes may be added to the tips of the White House perimeter fence to help deter jumpers. If done, this will be a temporary measure to protect the grounds until a new permanent one is constructed. The official said that the proposal is not in place yet. The Secret Service has come under heavy criticism after two incidents compromised the security of the grounds. On March 4, two senior Secret Service agents who were reportedly intoxicated allegedly drove their car into a White House barrier. Last September, a man jumped the White House fence and made it to an unlocked door on the grounds. Asked about the White House fence jumper, House Oversight Committee chairman Jason Chaffetz told CNN, ``Prevention and swift apprehension is the goal. I appreciate those who dealt with the situation, but I want to learn more.''. CNN's Michelle Kosinski, Jim Acosta and Chris Frates contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A term used by President Barack Obama and Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake to characterize rioters has given new life to a debate over the word ``thug.''. ``Of course it's not the right word, to call our children `thugs,''' Baltimore City Councilman Carl Stokes told CNN's ``Erin Burnett OutFront.'' ``These are children who have been set aside, marginalized, who have not been engaged by us. No, we don't have to call them thugs.''. ``Just call them n ----- s. Just call them n ----- s,'' he said. ``No, we don't have to call them by names such as that.''. The Rev. Jamal Bryant drew the same comparison Wednesday morning on CNN. The President and the mayor are wrong, he said. ``These are not thugs, these are upset and frustrated children.''. ``It's amazing. You don't call six police officers who kill a man without probable cause `thugs,' but children who are frustrated and don't have an outlet, you call them `thugs.' `Thugs' is the 21st century word for the n-word. And it is repulsive and it is offensive to every person who is a parent trying to raise children interpreting what's taking place in this hour.''. The recent unrest in Baltimore was sparked by the arrest and death of Freddie Gray, who suffered a severe spinal cord injury while in custody. Six officers have been suspended over the incident. Bryant delivered the eulogy at Gray's funeral. What we know, don't know about Freddie Gray's death. Mayor Rawlings-Blake responded Wednesday. ``I wanted to clarify my comments on `thugs,''' she wrote Wednesday on Twitter. ``When you speak out of frustration and anger, one can say things in a way that you don't mean.''. She added, ``That night we saw misguided young people who need to be held accountable, but who also need support. And my comments then didn't convey that.''. Kweisi Mfume, Baltimore native and former president of the NAACP, said, ``It's important we not shift the focus into something that has absolutely nothing to do with poverty, despair, hunger, homelessness and a sense of not belonging.''. ``Whether we call them a thug, a law breaker, a juvenile delinquent, it really doesn't matter. What matters is how do we take back our streets. And that's what men have been doing, going around, talking to these young men where they, are in their face, and letting them know, you can't control this community. It is not yours. You can't burn it down. You can't force people out. You can't threaten people,'' he told ``OutFront.''. ``So I understand that, that people want to talk about a word. But I'm more worried about a movement, and it's not necessarily a movement for positive change. It's a movement for negative change right now unless we get it under control.''. Kevin Shird, another Baltimore native and author of ``Lessons of Redemption,'' said ``thug'' is ``not like the n-word in my mind.'' But, he said in a CNN interview, the term has ``been racialized across America, so I can see why people would become offended like that.''. Shird, a former drug dealer, also said he does not see the word as an accurate description of the young people who rioted and looted in Baltimore on Monday. ``These were young juveniles. And so, in my mind I don't see a 16 - or 17-year-old as a thug. I have seen thugs, and they don't look like thugs to me. My experience in life has been a little bit more extreme than that, but, again, it was criminal behavior and it can't be justified.''. He added, ``We just want to stay focused on the issue of police brutality and of the Freddie Gray matter.''. Opinion : Calling people `thugs' solves nothing. NFL player Richard Sherman has previously called the term ``the accepted way of calling somebody the n-word nowadays.''. Rapper Slim Thug once addressed the term on the Houston radio program ``Madd Hatta Morning Show.'' The host set up the exchange by referring to deceased rapper Tupac Shakur. ``I got the Tupac definition,'' the host said, as ``OutFront'' reported online in January 2014. ``His is just, you know, a person going through struggles, has gone through struggles and continue to live day-by-day.. just trying to make it.''. ``I think the same thing,'' Slim Thug responded. ``I probably got `thug' off of him, you know, growing up listening to him.. I feel the same way that he felt, coming from nothing to something.''. Webster's Dictionary defines ``thug'' as ``a brutal ruffian or assassin.''. On Monday, Mayor Rawlings-Blake said, ``There is a difference between what we saw over the past week with the peaceful protests, those who wish to seek justice, those who wish to be heard, and want answers, and the difference between those protests and the thugs who only want to incite violence and destroy our city.''. On Tuesday, President Obama referred to the rioters as ``a handful of criminals and thugs who tore up the place.''. That same day, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry used the word ``thugs'' to refer to ISIS. At a luncheon in honor of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Kerry referred to two Japanese citizens ``who were murdered by the thugs of Daesh in retribution for Japan's pledge of humanitarian assistance -- I repeat, humanitarian assistance -- to the victims of fighting in the Middle East.'' ( Daesh is another term for ISIS. ). Kerry has also referred to ``thugs'' in the Ukraine crisis. Obama has also used the term ``thugs'' in similar context. ``Not every collection of thugs that labels themselves al Qaeda will pose a credible threat to the United States,'' he said in one speech. Complete coverage on the Baltimore riots.
Washington ( CNN ) Judge Jeffrey Sutton doesn't have a lot of company on the appeals courts these days. Sutton, who sits on the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati, penned the only recent appellate court decision to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage. His opinion, issued in November, goes up against an avalanche of judicial rulings striking down such bans. The split helped pave the way for the U.S. Supreme Court to take up a case on Tuesday that could ultimately decide whether gay and lesbian couples nationwide have a constitutional right to marry. And it provides important insight into the legal arguments that could be made before the court by states seeking to uphold bans at a time when the national sentiment is quickly shifting in favor of same-sex marriage. ``It's an ideal piece of judicial craftsmanship,'' said Ryan T. Anderson of the Heritage Foundation, who believes that state bans on same-sex marriage are constitutional. Sutton ``more or less takes each and every argument that the other side has made, and then one by one by one, he explains why it doesn't work.''. Critics call the opinion an outlier and don't believe it will carry much weight, considering the number of courts that have overturned same-sex marriage bans in the nearly two years since the Supreme Court struck down the core of the federal Defense of Marriage Act. ``Judge Sutton's opinion stands alone,'' said Jon W. Davidson, legal director of Lambda Legal, a gay rights advocacy group. Sutton, 54, is the former state solicitor for Ohio, where he handled appeals for the state's attorney general. He clerked for Justices Antonin Scalia and Lewis Powell -- Scalia once called Sutton ``one of the very best law clerks I ever had.''. Appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush, Sutton is considered a conservative jurist with a keen interest in states' rights. Here are the central arguments from his opinion that states seeking to uphold their same-sex marriage bans are expected to echo on Tuesday. It is ``dangerous and demeaning,'' Sutton wrote, to the citizenry to assume that only judges ``can fairly understand'' the arguments for and against same-sex marriage. ``Isn't the goal to create a culture in which a majority of citizens dignify and respect the rights of minority groups ?'' he asked in the opinion joined by Judge Deborah L. Cook, also a Bush appointee. Critics such as Davidson have roundly condemned such reasoning. ``The people don't get to decide what the Constitution safeguards,'' Davidson said. ``They don't get to vote to violate the Constitution.''. Sutton pointed to the drafters and their views of the 14th Amendment. ``Nobody in this case,'' he wrote, ``argues that the people who adopted the Fourteenth Amendment understood it to require the States to change the definition of marriage.''. It's an argument made to enforce the idea that there is no fundamental right to marriage for same-sex couples in the Constitution. ``From the founding of the Republic to 2003, every state defined marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman,'' he wrote, noting that the ``Fourteenth Amendment permits, though does not require, States to define marriage that way.''. He said that the same-sex marriage bans rationally advance a legitimate government policy. ``By creating a status ( marriage ) and by subsidizing it ( e.g. with tax-filing privileges and deductions ), the States created an incentive for two people who procreate together to stay together for purposes of rearing offspring.''. He said that states should not be accused of ``irrationality,'' but only the awareness that same-sex couples don't have children in the same way as couples of the opposite sex. Sutton pushes back on any suggestion that those who oppose same-sex marriage have negative feelings about gay and lesbian couples. He said that ballot initiatives banning same sex-marriage were not driven by hostility but were passed by ``real people who teach our children, create our jobs, and defend our shores.''. Gene Schaerr, a Washington appellate lawyer who help to defend Utah's ban on same-sex marriage, calls Sutton's opinion a road map for whoever might write an opinion supporting state bans. ``He's very much willing both in the result and in his analysis to leave the issue to the people without suggesting an answer one way or another,'' Schaerr said. But attached to Sutton's opinion was a harsh dissent from a third member of the three-judge panel that heard the case in the 6th Circuit. Judge Martha Craig Daughtrey, a Bill Clinton appointee, dismissed the opinion as an ``engrossing TED talk'' and a ``largely irrelevant discourse on democracy and federalism.''. Daughtrey said that Sutton failed to see the plaintiffs as individuals ``suffering actual harm.''. ``These plaintiffs are not political zealots trying to push reform on their fellow citizens,'' she wrote, but committed same-sex couples seeking equal status. Her harshest language was for Sutton's premise that the decision should be left to the democratic process. ``If we in the judiciary do not have the authority, and indeed the responsibility, to right fundamental wrongs left excused by a majority of the electorate, our whole intricate, constitutional system of checks and balances, as well as the oaths to which we swore, prove to be nothing but shams.''
( CNN ) Shops looted and set ablaze. Terrified foreigners hiding in police stations and stadiums. Machete-wielding attackers hacking immigrants to death in major cities in South Africa. As attacks against foreigners and their businesses rage on, killing at least six people this week, other nations in the continent are scrambling to evacuate their citizens from South Africa. But this is not the first time xenophobic violence has exploded in a country that tries to portray itself as a diverse ``rainbow'' nation. They started after Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini said at a recent gathering that foreigners ``should pack their bags and go'' because they are taking jobs from citizens, local media reported. Shortly after his comments, violence against immigrants erupted in the port city of Durban. His office has denied he made the comments, saying journalists misquoted him. While kings are mostly ceremonial figures in the nation, they are influential in their communities. But the United Nations said the attacks started in March after a labor dispute between citizens and foreign workers. Some citizens have accused African immigrants of taking their already scarce jobs, undermining businesses owned by locals and contributing to a high crime rate. The nation's unemployment rate is about 25 %, according to government figures. But resentment over porous borders, growing crime rates, poverty and corruption are also a major concern, analysts say. President Jacob Zuma has said his government is addressing the social and economic concerns. But he said immigrants contribute to the nation's economy and bring skills that are in demand, and should not be stereotyped as criminals. ``While some foreign nationals have been arrested for various crimes, it is misleading and wrong to label or regard all foreign nationals as being involved in crime in the country,'' Zuma said. The nation has about 2 million documented and undocumented immigrants, which is about 4 % of the total population, according to a study by the University of the Witwatersrand. Zimbabweans make up the largest group of immigrants. Also, South Africa is a top travel destination for wealthy Africans because of its proximity and developed infrastructure. Yes. This is the latest in a series of attacks that date back years. In January, looters burned businesses owned by foreigners in another wave of xenophobic attacks. In addition, there were other incidents of violence last year, Human Rights Watch said. Seven years ago, Johannesburg was the epicenter of more anti-immigrant tensions that left dozens dead in attacks that later spread to Cape Town. Most of the victims were Zimbabweans who had fled repression and dire economic circumstances. In those attacks, police arrested more than 200 people on various charges, including rape, murder, robbery and theft. In 2006, xenophobic violence broke out again for several months in Cape Town. Victims of xenophobic attacks have been from various African nations, including Nigeria, Somalia and Ethiopia. African nations have condemned the attacks. Kenya, Malawi and Zimbabwe are just a few of the countries evacuating their citizens from South Africa. In Zambia, local radio station QFM said it will not play South African music in solidarity with the victims. And in Mozambique, South African energy and chemical giant Sasol sent about 340 South African nationals home. The company said Mozambican employees voiced concern about reported violence against their nationals and protested the presence of South African employees in Mozambique. Most of the attacks have erupted in poor and marginalized areas. Despite the progress the nation has made since its apartheid days, inequality still remains a major concern, according to the Nelson Mandela Foundation. ``It is up to the present and next generations to take up the cudgels where you ( Mandela ) have left off. It is up to them, through service to deepen our democracy ; entrench and defend our constitution ; eradicate poverty ; eliminate inequality ; fight corruption, and serve always with compassion, respect, integrity and tolerance,'' the foundation said in a statement. ``Xenophobia, racism and sexism must be fought with tenacity, wisdom and enlightenment.''. As fears of more attacks grow, South Africans have taken to social media and the streets to protest xenophobia and violence.
Garissa, Kenya ( CNN ) The Kenyan government says Mohamed Mohamud, also known by aliases Dulyadin and Gamadhere, is the mastermind of Thursday's Kenya university terror attack, according to a tweet from the country's Interior Ministry. Al-Shabaab, an al Qaeda-linked militant group based in Somalia, took responsibility for the attack, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. Mohamud is ``credited with having an extensive terrorist network within Kenya,'' according to a ministry document given to CNN. Earlier, the ministry posted a ``Most Wanted'' notice for Mohamud. It offers a reward of 20 million Kenyan shillings, which is about $ 215,000. ``We appeal to anyone with any info on #Gamadhere to share with relevant authorities and security agencies,'' the Interior Ministry posted on Twitter. Mohamud is in charge of external operations against Kenya, the document says, and he is the regional commander within Al-Shabaab in charge of the Juba region. In this role, he commands the militia along the border and ``is responsible for cross-border incursions in the country.''. His network extends within the Dadaab refugee camp, the document says. Dadaab is the world's biggest refugee camp, home to thousands of people, according to the United Nations. It's located in Kenya's North Eastern province near Somalia. CNN Exclusive : Exposing smuggler routes across the Somalia-Kenya border. Mohamud has claimed responsibility for several attacks in the past few years, including December's quarry attack, which killed at least 36 people. In that attack, Al-Shabaab militants separated non-Muslim workers from their Muslim counterparts and killed them. Mohamud is Kenyan and has three wives and three siblings, including two with links to Al-Shabaab, the document says. Also Sunday, Kenya's Interior Ministry identified another terrorist involved in the Garissa University College attack as Abdirahim Abdullahi. Abdullahi's father, Abdullahi Daqare, a government chief in Mandera in northern Kenya, told CNN that his son was missing. Daqare is a Kenyan Somali, he said. His son graduated in 2013 from Nairobi University law school and worked for a bank for two months before he went missing, Daqare said in a phone interview. ``I have received reports from people who found information ( on ) the Internet that my son was one of the terrorists,'' Daqare said. ``I previously told the government that the son is missing. I sought their help to find the whereabouts of my son.''. He added that the two had not been in contact his the son disappeared. Daqare said he had ``really given up on him.''. On Sunday, families of some of the more than 147 people slain at Garissa University College left a mortuary in Nairobi, Kenya, after identifying the bodies of their loved ones. One woman almost had to be carried out. ``Why ? Why ? Where are you, my children ?'' she wailed. Across Garissa, there was a sense of fear, foreboding and grief. The news agency Reuters videotaped a man holding his daughter's hand at a local church, as military patrols and security officials searched people. A church member told the agency, ``Nowhere is safe, but here in church you can come, you be with God and then you just console yourself.''. Horrific stories of survival and tales of massive loss continue to emerge. To survive Al-Shabaab militants blazing through her dorm, shooting and killing classmates, 19-year-old Cynthia Cheroitich went into a closet, covering herself with clothes. Her two roommates hid under their beds. The gunmen called them out. '' ( The gunmen ) told them if you don't know to read to them in the Muslim word, whatever, and then you lie down,'' Cheroitich told CNN. ``And then, if you know, you go to the other side.''. The teenager didn't see what happened next. She heard it. ``They were shooting everywhere,'' she said. ``I didn't want to open my eyes.''. For the next two days, Cheroitich didn't budge. Unable to get to water, she hydrated by drinking body lotion. When police went into her room -- well after the carnage was done, with 147 dead at the school -- she didn't believe them. Only a visit by the head of the university convinced her that, finally, it was safe to come out. ``I was scared so much,'' she recalled. Garissa is a town about 90 miles from the Somali border. Al-Shabaab is based in Somalia, but it hasn't confined its terrorism to the lawless nation. In 2013 militants attacked Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall. Saturday, the terrorist group warned that more carnage is coming, as it promised ``another bloodbath'' in Kenya. The threat drew a sharp response from Nathif Jama Adam, the governor of Garissa County. ``The fallacy and satanic mindset of Al-Shabaab is that in Somalia, they kill Muslims and Somalis,'' Adam said. ``They cross the border here and then say they are killing non-Muslims. That is a tricky way of doing business.''. He said the militants were ``bent on nothing but destruction'' and aimed to sow division between Muslims and non-Muslims. ``But that is something we need to fight,'' Adam said. Five arrested in Kenya attack. Police in Garissa on Saturday paraded the bodies of men they said had carried out the attack. The corpses -- locked in a macabre embrace and partially wrapped in an orange tarp -- were piled on the back of a pickup truck and driven to a primary school soccer pitch for viewing. A large crowd gathered, despite the baking sun and foul stench. The truck drove up next to the onlookers, so that they could inspect the bodies. Anger seethed in the crowd. ``These gunmen, they killed innocent children. We want to burn these people,'' one man told CNN. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta also had some harsh words Saturday for Al-Shabaab, as well as those who supported them. In a nationally televised speech, Kenyatta said the nation's fight against terrorism ``has been made all the more difficult by the fact that the planners and the financiers of this brutality are deeply embedded in our communities and were seen previously as ordinary, harmless people.''. Kenyatta condemned ``corruption of the worst and most criminal kind ( when ) Kenyans.. finance, hide and recruit on behalf of Al-Shabaab.''. ``There is no form of legal penalty, social shaming and godly condemnation that they do not deserve, to the fullest extent,'' the President said. Describing Al-Shabaab as an ``existential threat to our republic,'' Kenyatta urged his fellow Kenyans to ``tell those that believe a caliphate is possible in Kenya that we are one indivisible, sovereign and democratic state.''. ``That fight will never change,'' he added. ``Our forefathers bled and died for this nation. And we will do everything to defend our way of life.''. Kenyatta declared three days of national mourning for the victims of the attack. Inside Garissa University College dorm's scene of slaughter. CNN's Christian Purefoy reported from Garissa and Lillian and Florence Obondo reported from Kenya. CNN's David McKenzie, Don Melvin, Jethro Mullen and Jessica King contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The death of Freddie Gray, which was the flashpoint for the protests and now the riots in Baltimore, has raised again the questions surrounding police use of force, especially after the now-familiar video of officers arresting Mr. Gray and loading him into a police van. Gray was arrested by police on April 12. The 25-year-old was carried in the van for 40 minutes and he was not properly buckled in, according to authorities. Gray's family said his voice box had been crushed and his neck snapped, and after a week of hospitalization, he died. Police Commissioner Anthony Batts has said, ``We know our police employees failed to get him medical attention in a timely manner multiple times.'' The police and the U.S. Justice Department are investigating. The case raises at least three legal issues :. Believe it or not, the charging document in this case gives us more information than the now-viral video of the arrest.In that narrative, police state ``Defendant fled unprovoked upon noticing police presence.'' According to the officers' words, that's the sole reason a stop was initiated. There is no other description of either criminal activity or safety concerns. The next sentence is important too : ``The defendant was apprehended in -LSB- a specific location -RSB- after a brief foot chase.'' The police are locked in : it appears that by their own narrative that the unprovoked flight was the only reason for the stop, because the very next thing that happens.. is the stop. Can the police stop you if all you do is run from them when you see them ? For the most part, yes. But having grounds to stop is not the same as having probable cause to make an arrest. In this case, Mr. Gray took off running. The United States Supreme Court and Maryland courts have made clear that unprovoked flight -- running away from the police for no reason -- is enough to support reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed. When you add to the suspect's flight the Supreme Court's recognition that the character of the neighborhood is also a factor in assessing reasonable suspicion, it appears that the police in this case had at least enough to justify the stop, constitutionally. Much to the chagrin of public defenders and defense attorneys, as long as an officer testifies minimally to an individual ( 1 ) running away, ( 2 ) in a ``high crime'' area, the stop will usually be ``good.'' But police are supposed to articulate the additional safety concern to get to the frisk. Police must also have reasonable suspicion that the suspect may be ``armed and presently dangerous'' to additionally conduct a carefully limited search of the outer clothing for the sole purpose of discovering weapons. The charging document doesn't really identify a safety concern.. or does it ? After the chase, and before an arrest : ``This officer noticed a knife clipped to the inside of his front right pants pocket.'' Shouldn't that really say : ``I saw a clip but whatever it was clipped to was inside a pocket.. where I couldn't see it'' ? That's a close call : Police were lawfully at the stop stage, but the knife -- even though it was inside his pants pocket -- was visible from the outside.. because of an identifying knife clip ? See how artfully that was done ? Observation of a knife is definitely a safety concern. Observation of a clip ? I suppose that will get the officer to the frisk of the pocket.. assuming he is a connoisseur of knife clips and can differentiate them from hair clips, chip clips, etc.. According to William Murphy, an attorney for Gray's family, he was carrying a ``pocket knife of legal size,'' and the lawyer contended that police didn't see the knife before the altercation. The legality of the knife will be an issue, but police have essentially conceded that the knife was not seen until the stop. The important thing here is that a stop and frisk is not the same as an arrest. In theory, if a stop gives rise to no suspicion, and a frisk yields nothing more than a comb and some pocket lint, the citizen should be free to leave. An arrest requires much more : probable cause to believe a crime has been committed, and nothing less. That knife was the only crime he was charged with, so again, police are locked into a narrative by their own report. If it ultimately turns out to be a legal knife, there will be a lot of scrutiny on the decision to arrest. For example, if the ``knife'' was one of those pointy files attached to a 2-inch nail clipper, that does not sound like good faith probable cause for an arrest. Remember also that based on the police narrative in the report, they did not see the knife until after they seized Mr. Gray. So the question arises : What would they have done with Gray if he had no knife or other contraband on him ?. They could, but most likely not unless there was some intentional act that resulted in Gray's death. As we've seen, charging officers with crimes -- especially murder -- is rare and difficult. If you're pro-cop, you could say that's because they are well-trained and rarely abuse their force. If you have a more jaded view of law enforcement, you would say it's because they are well-trained, and consequently very skilled at testifying or explaining their use of force. Baltimore Police are suggesting Mr. Gray's injuries occurred after his arrest, while he was being transported back for processing, and that he may not have received proper medical attention. That's not a surprise. In fact, from a liability perspective, this is a good strategic move for the police. It will be harder to hold them liable if Gray's injuries happened after -- not before -- his arrest. Pre-arrest, Gray's ``seizure'' would be judged by a ``reasonableness'' standard, under the Fourth Amendment. However, courts have limited these ``seizures'' to the initial act of seizing the person. Any excessive force claims after the arrest are not covered by the Fourth Amendment. The claims of an arrestee are instead governed by a different constitutional provision : the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment. So what ? What's the difference between the Fourth and 14th Amendment anyway ? When it comes to potential civil liability of the officers, it makes a huge difference. The applicable burden of proof and chances of winning a lawsuit depend largely on which constitutional standard governs. Under the Fourth Amendment, the test is whether the force was objectively unreasonable based on the totality of the circumstances. Under the 14th Amendment standard, the officer will only be liable if the force was applied maliciously and sadistically for the very purpose of causing unnecessary and wanton pain and suffering. That's a much tougher burden for a plaintiff to meet. Fortunately, courts have held that pretrial detainees like Freddie Gray are entitled to at least the same protection under the 14th Amendment as are convicted prisoners under the Eighth Amendment, and its prohibition against ``cruel and unusual punishments,'' in this case the deliberate indifference to medical needs of prisoners. Confused ? You're not alone. Even a Supreme Court justice has taken issue with this view of the Constitution. Other jurisdictions have actually opted to extend the protections of the Fourth Amendment after arrest, so not only could reasonable minds differ.. reasonable courts, judges, and states differ, too. It's just that Maryland is not within one of those jurisdictions. But it's true. It's a kind of unintentional ``gap'' in constitutional coverage, one the courts have struggled to deal with. Based on the law, it seems that if an arrestee is hurt during a ``rough ride,'' police might avoid liability in Maryland if they contend the injury was not caused wantonly or sadistically. That's a higher standard for liability than if Freddie Gray was hurt pre-arrest, so, if it's the truth, it just happens to also be a constitutionally convenient one.
( CNN ) A U.S. Army soldier was killed Wednesday in an attack in eastern Afghanistan by an Afghan National Army gunman, a U.S. military official told CNN, shortly after an American official met with a provincial governor. A U.S. defense official didn't provide details about the attack in the city of Jalalabad. But an Afghan police chief told CNN that an Afghan National Army soldier shot at U.S. soldiers at a provincial governor's compound in Jalalabad on Wednesday. The Afghan soldier opened fire on the U.S. troops as they were leaving a meeting at the compound, said Fazal Ahmad Shirzad, police chief of Nangarhar province. An Afghan soldier was killed and another was injured in a subsequent exchange of gunfire, Shirzad said. It wasn't immediately clear whether the assailant was among them. A senior U.S. official had just held a meeting with Nangarhar's governor at the compound when gunfire erupted, a U.S. Embassy representative said. The embassy representative didn't identify the official but said that all diplomatic personnel had been accounted for after the incident. The U.S. military official didn't know yet what motivated the shooting. Other troops were injured in the attack, the U.S. defense official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Those troops belong to the NATO-led Resolute Support mission meant to train and support Afghan troops. The defense official did not provide the nationalities of the injured Resolute Support troops. Most of the troops involved with Resolute Support are with the U.S. military. CNN national security analyst Peter Bergen said that despite Wednesday's incident, instances of ``green-on-blue'' attacks are declining overall for several reasons. ``First, there are far fewer US soldiers in Afghanistan,'' Bergen said. ``Second more counterintelligence resources were devoted to countering the threat and third, an attempt was made to better vet afghan army recruits.''. CNN's Masoud Popalzai and Jim Sciutto contributed to this report from Kabul, Afghanistan.
( CNN ) Beer and ice cream. It doesn't exactly spring to mind when you think of classic food pairings -- old friends such as bacon and eggs or steak and cabernet. But Colorado's New Belgium Brewery and the folks at Ben & Jerry's are teaming up on a beer inspired by ice cream -- salted caramel brownie ice cream, to be precise. ``At this time I can confirm that Ben & Jerry's and New Belgium are collaborating to raise awareness around issues we are passionate about, and that the results will be delicious,'' New Belgium's Director of Sustainability, Jenn Vervier, said in a statement. Both companies have a history of social activism, and the new project will be no different, they say. Their release doesn't say what the campaign will be all about, but Ben & Jerry's Senior Global Marketing Manager Jay Curley promises it will be ``impactful.''. ``We're big fans of New Belgium Brewery, their values, and their fun culture, and of course their beer,'' he said. ``We're excited for the campaign we've developed together.''. The companies will announce the details later this year, and the beer is set to hit shelves in the fall. New Belgium and Ben & Jerry's are both what are called ``B Corporations,'' a certification issued by the private non-profit B Labs to companies that meet its social, environmental, accountability and transparency standards. New Belgium supports sustainable agriculture, climate change and other initiatives, while Ben & Jerry's -- now a subsidiary of global conglomerate Unilever -- stays true to its hippie roots with support for environmental initiatives, fair trade efforts, marriage equality and more. Last month, Ben & Jerry's cofounder Ben Cohen said he'd be open to the idea of a marijuana-infused ice cream someday, news that set pot fans ablaze. But sadly for beer fans, there's no talk of a beer-flavored ice cream. Not yet anyway.
( CNN ) Suzanne Crough, the child actress who portrayed youngest daughter Tracy on the'70s musical sitcom ``The Partridge Family,'' has died. She was 52. Crough passed away Monday at home in Laughlin, Nevada, the Clark County Coroner's Office said. Tracy played tambourine and percussion in the traveling ``Partridge Family'' band. The group consisted of a widowed mom, played by Shirley Jones, and her five children, played by David Cassidy, Susan Dey, Danny Bonaduce, Brian Forster and Crough. Band manager Reuben Kincaid, played by Dave Madden, rounded out the cast. The band had real hit songs with ``Come On Get Happy'' and ``I Think I Love You,'' though not all the members really sang or played instruments. The show aired from 1970-74. People we've lost in 2015. Redheaded Crough was raised in Los Angeles, the youngest of eight children, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Crough also starred in the TV series ``Mulligan's Stew'' and had spots on other series in the'70s. She appeared in a ``Partridge Family'' reunion on the ``Today'' show in 2010. ``I'm an office manager for Office Max,'' she told host Matt Lauer. ``I have two daughters, I'm married, I have a normal job.''. CNN's Henry Hanks contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Bobbi Kristina Brown, the daughter of Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston, has ``global and irreversible brain damage,'' according to her grandmother. Though the 22-year-old is no longer in a medically induced coma, she remains unresponsive, Cissy Houston said in a statement Monday after visiting her granddaughter. ``Meeting with the doctors and understanding that she can live in this condition for a lifetime truly saddens me,'' Houston said. ``We can only trust in God for a miracle at this time.''. Houston's statement matched that from a source with knowledge of Brown's condition, who told CNN on Monday that she remained in the same neurological state she has been in for nearly three months. She does not respond to visitors or familiar voices, and her eyes do not follow a person around the room, the source told CNN. She also has a tracheostomy in her throat, the source said. The reports come two days after Brown's father, Bobby Brown, said his daughter's condition had improved. ``I can say today, Bobbi is awake. She's watching me,'' Brown told the audience at Dallas' Verizon Theatre. The audience cheered. In a statement Monday, an attorney for the Brown family said that Bobbi Kristina Brown's condition has improved but that the kind of life she will lead remains to be seen. ``Doctors have indicated that she will have a long life,'' attorney Christopher Brown said. ``However, Bobbi Kristina is presently embarking on a rehabilitation process, and the quality of her life will not be known for years to come.''. Who's who in the Bobbi Kristina Brown case ?. Bobby Brown was in an ``emotional state'' on stage when he made the remarks about his daughter being awake, according to the statement. ``She has made it out of ICU, opened her eyes and started a rehabilitation that will be long and hard,'' said Bobby Brown's wife, Alicia Etheredge-Brown.
( CNN ) Let's start with a pop quiz ( space junkies can skip this test ). True or False, Mercury is :. 1 ) The planet closest to the sun in our solar system. 2 ) So hot that water couldn't possibly exist there. 3 ) Something used in old-style glass thermometers. 4 ) A planet you don't think about very often. Answers : True, False, True ( but not what we're talking about in this story ) and I'm guessing No. 4 is true too. If you flunked the test, it might be because Mercury ( the planet ) suffers from bad ( or very little ) press. Or, maybe it's just bad lighting. Mercury orbits about 35,983,125 miles from the sun. Compare that to Earth -- we're about 93 million miles from the sun. Mercury's closeness to the sun makes it hard to see except at dawn and twilight. This may be one reason we don't think about it much. Venus, on the other hand, the planet between Earth and Mercury, appears to be the brightest planet in the sky. It's so bright it's been mistaken for an airplane. Pilot sends plane into dive after mistaking Venus for oncoming plane. But back to Mercury. It's getting some attention from the media now because it's about to get a visitor. The NASA spacecraft MESSENGER ( an acronym for MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry, and Ranging ) is about to crash onto Mercury. The probe was launched in 2004 and traveled more than six and a half years before it started orbiting Mercury on March 18, 2011. Now, MESSENGER is running out of fuel and NASA says it will hit the planet's surface at 8,750 mph ( 3.91 kilometers per second ) around April 30. You won't be able to see it hit because Messenger will crash on the side of Mercury facing away from Earth. There's no way to save the spacecraft, but mission operators at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory ( APL ) in Laurel, Maryland, have been doing what they can to delay the inevitable. They've been using the little bit of fuel left on board to maneuver the spacecraft to keep it in orbit. They'll do one final maneuver on Friday, April 24. ``Following this last maneuver, we will finally declare the spacecraft out of propellant, as this maneuver will deplete nearly all of our remaining helium gas,'' mission systems engineer Daniel O'Shaughnessy said at a recent media briefing. ``At that point, the spacecraft will no longer be capable of fighting the downward push of the sun's gravity.''. But rather than mourn the loss, scientists held a briefing to celebrate the mission's success. ``For the first time in history we now have real knowledge about the planet Mercury that shows it to be a fascinating world as part of our diverse solar system,'' said John Grunsfeld, associate administrator for the Science Mission Directorate at NASA Headquarters in Washington. One of MESSENGER's big findings : It sent back data indicating that ice in Mercury's shadowed polar regions, if spread over an area the size of Washington, would be more than two miles thick, NASA said. It also took some amazing photos of the planet. So the MESSENGER mission is ending, but scientists say they'll be busy for years studying data from the probe. And if you want to see Mercury with your own eyes, you may be in luck if you can find an area with dark skies. It will be visible in the night sky just before dusk until about the end of May. Your favorite astronomy website will have some helpful guides. Here are a few we found :. • Earthsky.org. • Astronomy. • Sky and Telescope. • Stardate.
( CNN ) Since the headline-grabbing murder of American journalist James Foley by ISIS militants eight months ago, the world has been regularly confronted with a modern form of an ancient, primally horrifying method of execution. British and American aid workers, Japanese and American journalists, Kurdish and Syrian soldiers and Egyptian and now Ethiopian Christians were among those who followed in Foley's wake : their gruesome beheadings documented on camera and disseminated as propaganda to a global online audience. These highly ritualized killings have galvanized international opposition to the group -- and helped attract a wave of foreign recruits to the ISIS cause. But beyond this, some experts such as psychology professor Arie W. Kruglanski suggest, the wave of savage beheadings may be having an unlikely knock-on effect. He says the spate of jihadist beheadings may be encouraging copy-cat acts or threats of decapitation -- not only from Islamists, but from the ``disbelievers'' they target. Kruglanski, distinguished professor of psychology at the University of Maryland, says the frequent, high profile reports of ISIS beheadings could result in psychologically ``priming'' people to be more inclined to emulate them, or threaten to, during moments of conflict or extreme stress. Because of the attention that jihadist beheadings have commanded internationally, ``the very concept of beheading, that was virtually non-existent in our unconscious prior to these events being propagated, is now there,'' he told CNN. ``It comes to mind when a conflict happens, when you react aggressively,'' he said. ``It sits there in our unconscious and can be activated under certain circumstances when the passions run high, and result in actual behavior.''. Reports of beheadings also emerge from Saudi Arabia, where it is a legal method of execution under the country's judicial code ; and Mexico and Brazil, where it is typically the work of criminal gangs. But neither has placed the practice in the global spotlight to anything like the same degree as ISIS's propaganda, in which the threat is extended to ``disbelievers'' around the globe. A similar copy-cat effect had been observed with the phenomenon of school mass shootings, said Kruglanski. ``Once the idea is planted then when someone is upset, feeling violent, the idea of getting a gun and shooting up a school comes more readily to mind, because it's sitting there in our unconscious,'' he said. A lack of hard data on the global incidence of beheadings makes it impossible to say conclusively whether such killings are being carried out by non-jihadists more often. But reports of such cases have been frequently making the headlines. In December and January, two victims were decapitated -- outside a Florida home, and in a shopping mall in China's Shaanxi province -- in crimes with no apparent connection to terror. In London alone, a city deeply impacted by the murder and attempted decapitation of soldier Lee Rigby by Islamic extremists in 2013, three women were reportedly beheaded last year in alleged crimes with no apparent jihadist motivation. And in the United States, an Oklahoma man is awaiting trial, accused of beheading a co-worker in September. ( Whether he was inspired by ISIS propaganda remains unclear ; he was reportedly a recent convert to Islam and had posted Osama bin Laden and beheading content online. ). Whether or not ``non-jihadist'' beheadings are on the increase, this brutal method of killing has inarguably come to occupy a larger part of the public consciousness, as ISIS's beheadings have grabbed international headlines and the terror group's call on supporters to attack ``disbelievers'' has reverberated worldwide. In Australia and the Philippines, jihad-related threats or plots to decapitate have allegedly been made in the past seven months ; recently, a Muslim convert in London was found guilty of a plot to behead a British soldier, inspired by the Rigby murder. The theme of beheading was also front and center in an incident in Belgium in January, where fans of football team Standard Liege unfurled a giant banner depicting the severed head of an opponent. The club condemned their actions as ``totally unacceptable.''. Beyond this, threats to behead also seem to have gained a wider currency among non-jihadists, said Kruglanski. In the U.S., a Michigan man was arrested in January for threatening to decapitate the New York police officer who put Eric Garner in a fatal choke hold, which triggered widespread civil rights protests. And months earlier, in October, police reportedly received a threat to behead elementary school students in Rhode Island. Roderic Broadhurst, a professor of crime, policing, security and justice at the Australian National University said the ISIS beheadings may have shown those engaging in attention-seeking threats of violence a sure way to get noticed. ``An awareness of what really shocks and gets `news' is clearly on show,'' he said. The threats and banner demonstrated the way in which the spread of beheading rhetoric may be having a psychologically ``brutalizing'' effect on society, said Kruglanski, intensifying the violence of our thoughts, words and actions. ``Ultimately, we're talking about contributing to the brutalization of interpersonal and inter-group conflict all over the planet,'' he said. Justin Hastings, a senior lecturer in international relations and comparative politics at the University of Sydney, said that while ISIS beheadings ``might inspire some people to prefer that particular way to kill people as opposed to others,'' he believed it would eventually fall out of favor. While beheading had been adopted by ISIS as their stock in trade, it would inevitably lose its shock value, driving jihadists to ramp up the levels of atrocity in order to continue capturing international attention. One such dramatic escalation occurred in February, when ISIS released a propaganda video in which the tactic of beheading was abandoned altogether for fresh horrors -- burning Jordanian pilot Moath al-Kasasbeh alive in a cage. Later that month, ISIS released a video released showing what appeared to be Kurdish Peshmerga fighters paraded down Iraqi streets in cages. For many, a baffling aspect to the executions has been how such overweening brutality could win support for the ISIS cause. While the executions are viewed by the vast majority of people as repellent, Kruglanski said, they could exert a strong pull for sympathizers by projecting ``a sense of godlike power.''. ``We all have this morbid, instinctual fascination with death and killing and torture, which is sublimated and constrained by civilization and our culture and socialization,'' he said. ``Most of us are peaceful even though these drives exist in our subconscious ; civilization rests on its ability to constrain them.''. But when the ``death instinct'' -- ``this drive to kill and promote violence'' -- was legitimized by a powerful narrative, such as a religious or ideological call to global jihad, ``then that can result in unregulated atrocities,'' he said. For some foreign jihadists who had traveled to Iraq and Syria to fight for ISIS, the realities of the so-called ``Islamic State'' had driven them to return home disenchanted, he said. But others remained. ``In each of us there is this battle of good versus evil,'' said Kruglanski. ``It's a battle in everybody's soul.''
Tehran, Iran ( CNN ) Traveling to Iran these days, the mood among many people and the government can probably best be described using two words : confident and optimistic. After a preliminary framework for a possible nuclear deal was reached between Iran and world powers, many here believe a final agreement is possible -- and most hope that widespread sanctions relief could be on the horizon. Businesses are already gearing up for a time after the restrictions are lifted, and many people anticipate a huge boost to the economy. ``Naturally we are all very happy,'' one woman in central Tehran told us. ``We expect better days economically and culturally. We want better relations with the rest of the world.'' Another man added, ``I have a good feeling about it, because my country will be free of the fear of war.''. But this weekend, just a few miles down the road, Iran's leaders were celebrating their war machine as the military held its annual National Army Day parade. As the U.S., Saudi Arabia and other countries criticize Iran for its alleged involvement in funding and supplying the Houthi rebels who have seized power in much of Yemen, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has praised the military as peacemakers for the Middle East. ``Today, our army is the source of our national stability,'' Rouhani said in his speech at the parade. ``And even more than that -- it is also a source of security and stability in the entire region.''. The country's top military brass seemed surprisingly relaxed and unusually willing to speak with Western media outlets. Major General Hassan Firouzabadi, the Chief of Staff of Iran's armed forces and a man who is close to Rouhani, told CNN he hopes the U.S. and Iran can work closer together to fight ISIS in Iraq. ``The unity of humanity based on the right of all human beings to live, and their right to freedom, dictates that all human society is threatened by ISIS, and all humans should unite against ISIS and work against them,'' Firouzabadi said. Firouzabadi also repeated Iran's longstanding claim that the U.S. is partly responsible for creating ISIS, which now controls large parts of Iraq and Syria. ``If the Americans really didn't create ISIS, and if they want to destroy ISIS, it is possible for them to achieve that,'' he said. ``But we have not seen anything so far except intelligence gathering from the U.S. and Britain. We hope that one day, because of their national interests and the will of their nations, the U.S. and the UK will decide to really fight ISIS.''. Iran has often dismissed the coalition air campaign as ineffective, while praising its own strategy of training, advising, outfitting and directing Iraqi Shia militias, Kurdish forces and the Iraqi military. But in another apparent softening of rhetoric, a top military official said he hopes that the animosity between Iran and America will fade. ``At the moment, we consider the United States to be a threat to us because its policies and actions are threatening to us,'' General Ahmad Reza Pourdastan, the commander of Iran's ground forces, told CNN. ``We would like the U.S. to change its rhetoric and tone of voice so that our nation could have more trust in the U.S. military leadership,'' Pourdastan continued. ``We trust the American people, but the tone of U.S. government and military officials is such that we still consider the U.S. a threat.''. At the same time, Iran's leadership is showing no sign of toning down its own fiery rhetoric -- and the usual ``Death to Israel, death to the U.S.A.'' chants echoed around the crowds at the military parade. The U.S. welcomes some of Iran's support for Iraqi forces in the fight against ISIS, but says at this point that there simply is no basis for deeper cooperation on the battlefield. And for Iran's part, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has also rejected direct coordination between the two long-time adversaries. And even though many Iranians have high hopes for the interim nuclear deal, the leadership in Washington and Tehran is far more skeptical. In a recent televised speech, Khamenei said it was possible that there would be no deal by the June 30 deadline -- and possibly no deal at all. And Iran's army brass has rejected the notion that nuclear inspectors would get access to military sites. Meanwhile, the White House has been confronted by a Congress that is largely hostile to the negotiations, and has been making the case that a deal can not be about trust, but about monitoring and verification. ``Our main concern here is making sure that if Iran doesn't abide by its agreement, that we don't have to jump through a whole bunch of hoops in order to reinstate sanctions,'' U.S. President Barack Obama said last Friday. ``That's our main concern. And I think that goal, of having in reserve the possibility of putting back and applying forceful sanctions in the event of a violation, that goal can be met.''. So far none of this has seriously threatened to derail nuclear talks set to resume this week. But despite the confidence and optimism that is currently in the air, there is also fear that things could fall apart if Tehran and Washington aren't willing to make tough concessions.
( CNN ) It seems almost silly to be writing about baseball in the context of recent events. Except it isn't. Last weekend, as Baltimore reacted to the death of Freddie Gray, the young man who died last week from a spinal cord injury he suffered while in police custody, Major League Baseball had a problem on its hands. Saturday's game between the Orioles and Red Sox had gone into extra innings in Camden Yards, with plenty of fans for both teams glued to their seats. Boston fans feel at home in Oriole Park -- a so-called retro urban park built to embrace the luxuries of modern stadiums while maintaining that nostalgic feel -- because much of it was based on Boston's Fenway Park. The Boston faithful are used to being in the heart of a city to watch sports. But when the Orioles finally pulled out a win in the 10th inning, 36,000 fans remained in their seats. They had been asked to do so by Baltimore officials due to ``ongoing public safety issues.''. The riots of Baltimore, the peaceful marches of Baltimore, the fury and unrest of Baltimore did not seem to have had much to do with baseball. But as the always-wise Atlantic magazine writer ( and Baltimore native ) Ta-Nehisi Coates' take on the situation quickly went viral, it became clear that the Oriole's home stand presented a problem. Monday's game against the Chicago White Sox : postponed less than an hour before the first pitch. Tuesday's game against the White Sox : also postponed. Such action by MLB is not without precedent. In 1967 in Detroit, the 12th Street riots forced the Tigers to postpone one game and relocate others ( to Baltimore, no less ). After the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., MLB postponed opening day games out of fear of mob violence. In the wake of the 1992 verdict in the Rodney King beating, the Los Angeles Dodgers postponed several games. The entire league went on hiatus in the wake of the terrorism and violence of September 11, 2001. Politics threaten sports all the time. From the demonstrations against the Brazilian government before last summer's World Cup to the massacre of protesting students days before the Opening Ceremony of the Mexico City Olympics in 1968, sports knows well that it sits within the larger context of the world. Our deep investment in our teams -- beyond the tax dollars that construct the stadiums and the salaries players make ( and the profits the owners and sponsors draw ) -- is supposed to work to create community, to unify. Cheering for the home team is supposed to create a sense of belonging. ``It's interesting that I have not yet heard anyone say that baseball or sport can heal this wound,'' Daniel Nathan, professor of American Studies at Skidmore College and editor of ``Rooting for the Home Team : Sport, Community and Identity'' told me. ``People did say that in the weeks after 9/11. This is not 9/11 -- not even close. But it is a serious social and cultural rupture. Painful.''. What happens next is striking. After two postponements, the Orioles will play Chicago on Wednesday, but no one else will be invited. In an unprecedented move by major league baseball, the public is not invited to the final game of the series, moved to the afternoon in accordance with the curfew imposed by Baltimore's mayor. While there are a few examples of fan-less games being played in the United States, none have been for such reasons, while in Europe, there have been a handful of incidents in which soccer teams have been punished for fan behavior with fan-less games. Without fans, does baseball mean anything ?. When the new Camden Yards made its debut in 1992, people heralded the return of the old-time stadium smack in the middle of the city. But are the residents of that city ready to reminisce about the so-called good old days ?. In a recent episode of ``Real Sports,'' Chris Rock delivered a brilliant seven-minute diatribe on the fact that less than 10 % of baseball players or fans are black. ``Last year, the San Francisco Giants won it all without any black guys on the team,'' he said. ``The team the Giants had to beat to get there, the St. Louis Cardinals, had no black people. None. How could you ever be in St. Louis and see no black people ?''. Rock's thesis ? That baseball's sense of nostalgia encompassed by places like Camden Yards does not sit well with African Americans, whose memories of the old days are anything but good. To his credit, Orioles Executive Vice President John Angelos, son of majority owner Peter Angelos, took to Twitter to prioritize the issues at hand, focusing not on the lost games, but on the ``unfairly impoverished population living under an ever-declining standard of living and suffering at the butt end of an ever-more militarized and aggressive surveillance state.''. Yet as much of America continues to grapple with the idea that black lives matter, it is clear that the country believes sports do matter, whether or not anyone is there to watch. And with MLB's announcement that Baltimore's weekend games will be moved to Tampa, it becomes clear that the only thing that the United States has figured out about race relations, poverty, the achievement gap, police brutality, and so on is how to keep its baseball players safe and make sure that the games go on.
Rome ( CNN ) A destination for the destitute, Sicily is the ``promised land'' for thousands of migrants and refugees making the desperate journey from North Africa to Europe's Mediterranean coast. More than 10,000 people have arrived from Libya since last weekend alone, according to the Italian Coast Guard. Stories of death at sea and unimaginable suffering are nothing new in the waters between North Africa and Italy ; boat people have been arriving on Italy's islands for more than a decade. But what makes the current influx different is the increase in numbers and the absence of control from the ports of embarkation, specifically those in Libya, because when Moammar Gadhafi was in control, he also controlled the flow of migrant ships. In 2008, the-then Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and Gadhafi signed an historic friendship agreement in which Italy promised to invest $ 5 billion in Libyan infrastructure and Gadhafi promised to close what he described as a ``spigot'' of migrants. During a three-day state visit to Italy in August 2010, he famously threatened to ``turn Europe black'' if Libya did not enjoy cordial relations with the European Union. After the agreement, Gadhafi kept his promise and the number of arrivals drastically decreased. For a time, almost all migrant arrivals came from Tunisia, just 70 miles from the Italian island of Lampedusa. Because Italy sent most of those migrants who did not qualify for political asylum back to Tunisia, the flow eventually tapered off. And once a new Tunisian government was in place, after the Arab Spring, Italy signed an accord with Tunisia in which they promised to help patrol Tunisia's ports. But after Gadhafi was overthrown, the flow of migrants from Libya exploded again : the International Organization for Migration ( IOM ) in Rome told CNN that more than 140,000 migrants arrived from the North Africa coast in 2011. In October 2013, after a tragic boat accident off the coast of Lampedusa in which 349 people -- including an infant still attached to its mother by the umbilical cord -- died, trapped like sardines in their smugglers' boat as it sank, Italy decided it had to act. In November of 2013, the Italian Navy launched a $ 9M-a-month search-and-rescue program called Mare Nostrum, in which Italian naval ships patrolled the seas to rescue migrants. In just one year, the program rescued more than 160,000 migrants, according to the Italian Navy. Due to budget constraints and criticism from the European Union that the program itself was encouraging migrants to head across the Mediterranean, the mission ended in October 2014. By the end of the year, more than 174,000 people had been rescued in Italy ; an estimated 3,072 people died making the journey, according to the IOM. In November last year, the European Union's border control, Frontex, started its own mission -- Triton -- with a budget of less than a third that of Mare Nostrum. Frontex has no vessels or surveillance equipment of its own, so has to rely on European member states to lend them ships ; a ship from Iceland, at the far north of the continent, is currently involved in Frontex's operations off southern Europe. When Italy ended Mare Nostrum, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres warned that some European governments were making ``keeping foreigners out a higher priority than upholding asylum standards.''. ``This is a mistake, and precisely the wrong reaction for an era in which record numbers of people are fleeing wars,'' Guterres told a UNHCR policy meeting. ``Security and immigration management are concerns for any country, but policies must be designed in a way that human lives do not end up becoming collateral damage.''. Once migrants arrive in Italy, they are supposed to be processed for political asylum and monitored until it is granted or denied, but Italy has been sanctioned by the European Union for not fingerprinting new arrivals. By law, Italy has to take care of the arrivals, but many have no intention of staying in the country, and few of the reception centers are gated, meaning migrants can come and go as they please. And with no physical border controls between Italy and other European countries, they can then disperse across the continent. Moutassem Yazbek, 27, an IT specialist who worked for six years in Dubai, arrived in Sicily in December on board a smuggler's boat. He told CNN he was never fingerprinted in Italy, and eventually made it to Germany where he is studying to learn the language and find work. He says the human trafficking network is a finely-oiled machine that fills a growing need. ``I would have done anything to get here,'' Yazbek said. ``It was worth the risk, the bad treatment and the fear. Hard as that may be to believe, it is a better life.''
Johannesburg ( CNN ) He checked the series of stills on his camera. It was then that photographer James Oatway realized the entire attack had taken less than two minutes. It was the morning after a night of unrest in Johannesburg's Alexandra Township that saw foreign-owned shops looted and destroyed. Mozambican Emmanuel Sithole was walking down a street when four South Africans surrounded him. Sithole pleaded for mercy, but it was already too late. The attackers bludgeoned him with a wrench, stabbed him with knives, all in broad daylight. And Oatway had captured it all on his camera. ``They looked like hardened thugs, just by their intensity, the way they moved, the expressions on their faces,'' Oatway told CNN. ``They wanted one thing and that was to kill Emmanuel. They wanted his blood and nothing was going to stop them from doing that.''. Oatway says he tried to get as close as possible, conscious that the attackers were aware of his presence. ``When the attack started I was 20 meters ( 65 feet ) away, but at one point I was 4 or 5 meters away,'' he said. ``I did think that maybe they would leave him alone.''. The attackers finally did move on and leave Sithole alone. Oatway and his fellow journalist Beauregard Tromp quickly put the injured man in the back of the car and rushed him to a hospital, where he later died. ``I still remember him looking straight into my eyes,'' said Oatway. ``He had a kind of a dazed, shocked look in his face.''. Oatway's series of images of the ordeal landed on the front page of South Africa's Sunday Times under the headline, ``Kill thy neighbor : Alex attack brings home SA's shame.''. It's a shame that South Africa continues to confront. Seven people have been killed in the latest round of xenophobic violence against poorer immigrants, many from South Africa's neighbors. Xenophobic attacks : How did we get here ?. Local media alleged that the attacks were a consequence of Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini reportedly saying at a recent gathering that foreigners ``should pack their bags and go'' because they are taking jobs from citizens. Shortly after his reported comments, violence against immigrants erupted in the port city of Durban. But on Monday, Zwelithini said he had not called for a war on immigrants. ``This war I am calling for today is to protect everyone of foreign origin in this country irrespective of which country they are from.''. The United Nations said the attacks actually began in March after a labor dispute between citizens and foreign workers. OPINION : Labeling South Africa violence as xenophobia misses the point. But it was Oatway's photos of the violent attack on Sithole that have seemingly encapsulated the true horror of the situation -- and South Africa's leaders have begun to take notice. ``Terrible picture. People who live in rough townships have never seen such a scene,'' said President Jacob Zuma about the photos in a televised news conference. ``And I was sitting and I was saying to myself, what are we telling the world about ourselves ?''. Police announced they've now arrested all four suspects -- the last caught overnight Tuesday -- with help from Oatway's photos, which is little solace for the photographer who captured a level of depravity rarely seen. ``I'm sickened by it,'' said Oatway. ``And I'm extremely angry, angry with the men that did this, and ultimately I'm upset that our efforts weren't successful in saving Emmanuel's life.''
West of Baghdad, Iraq ( CNN ) Falih Essawi shouted on the phone as he described his situation. From his point of view, ISIS militants might be just hours away from taking the key Iraqi city of Ramadi. Fierce fighting has engulfed Ramadi, which lies only about 70 miles ( 113 kilometers ) west of Baghdad and is the capital of Anbar province, Iraq's Sunni heartland. Essawi, the deputy head of the Anbar Provincial Council, told CNN from inside the city Wednesday that it's unclear how much longer government troops can hold their front lines against the ISIS offensive. The politician said he was on a front line himself, armed with a machine gun. Security was ``collapsing rapidly in the city,'' and he begged the Iraqi government for reinforcements and the U.S.-led coalition against ISIS for air support. He stressed that urgent support from the military and security forces is needed to save the city. ``This is what we warned Baghdad of what's going to happen,'' Essawi told CNN by phone, referring to the Iraqi government at the capital. ``Where is Baghdad ? Where is al-Abadi ?''. His plea for help comes the day after Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi met with U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington to seek more support for the fight against ISIS. ``Just Allah knows if we will survive this,'' Essawi said. According to the Anbar official, at least 10 Iraqi security forces were killed and more than 100 others were wounded in the fighting against ISIS on Wednesday. The extremist group's offensive in Ramadi shows its resilience despite months of U.S.-led airstrikes and its recent defeat by Iraqi forces in the northern city of Tikrit. ISIS fighters have Ramadi under pressure from several angles. Essawi said ISIS militants made significant advances Wednesday in three areas east of Ramadi : Albu Soda, Albu Ghanem and parts of Soufia, which leads to central Ramadi. Later, he said that militants were rolling into the center of Ramadi. Over the weekend, the militants seized control of areas north of Ramadi. Routes south of the city were taken some months ago. That leaves only areas to the west of Ramadi in the hands of government forces, but those positions are under threat, Essawi warned. The recent fighting has driven a steady stream of refugees out of the city. On Wednesday, some residents packed what they could into metal carts as they prepared to flee on foot. People also were fleeing the areas where ISIS was advancing east of Ramadi. At least 150,000 people have already fled since Wednesday morning, causing huge traffic jams on the roads leading outside the city, according to Essawi. A CNN team met with three families that had fled an ISIS assault in the Albu Ghanem area. Those families said Iraqi security and military forces withdrew from Albu Ghanem after a battle with ISIS, which took over the area quickly. One fleeing Albu Ghanem resident, Abu Ahmed, paused to talk to CNN as he and his family walked east toward Baghdad, crossing a bridge over the Euphrates River. He said four ISIS militants had entered his house and set up a sniper position on his roof. Abu Ahmed said he, his wife and four children walked away from the home with his elderly mother while the ISIS fighters were busy setting things up there. He said his family left everything behind. His family was using a cart to carry his mother, who couldn't walk. While talking about the fighters' takeover of his home, his wife started crying and asked God to help the rest of the families who are stuck in Albu Ghanem. Ramadi has seen intense and persistent fighting for months. ISIS took over parts of the city in the first half of last year, placing it at the heart of a deadly tug of war ever since. The U.S. military has carried out multiple airstrikes against ISIS targets near Ramadi in recent weeks. ``The coalition has been supporting the fight in Ramadi with airstrikes, and there have been seven airstrikes in Ramadi since Monday,'' Col. Ed Thomas, spokesman for Joint Chiefs Chairman Col. Martin Dempsey, said on Wednesday. He stressed that Ramadi remains contested. Another U.S. military official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told CNN that the fall of Ramadi is ``not imminent.''. Sizable parts of the city are under ISIS control or influence, but the area has been a target of a months-long offensive, that official said. CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali and Arwa Damon reported from west of Baghdad, and Jethro Mullen wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Jason Hanna, Jim Sciutto, Jamie Crawford contributed to this report.
( CNN ) On Tuesday, a white police officer in North Charleston, South Carolina, was charged with murder for shooting an unarmed black man in the back. Officer Michael Slager was arrested after raw video surfaced showing him firing numerous shots at Walter Scott as Scott ran away from a traffic stop. The video footage contradicts Slager's statement that he felt threatened after Scott allegedly took his stun gun during a scuffle. The Post and Courier reported that the FBI has opened an investigation into the shooting death along with the State Law Enforcement Division, while the South Carolina attorney general is investigating possible civil rights violations. Now, after watching the footage -- which should remain in your memory for a long time to come -- one could say that Slager shot Scott like a dog. But then again, dogs usually are not treated this badly. But the man was shot like a runaway slave. In this case, there was clear documented evidence of what occurred, and no room for fabrications. Most police fatal shootings do not result in indictments because prosecutors conclude they are justifiable. The police officer can always plant a gun on the suspect he shot to death, or like Slager, apparently place a Taser near Scott's body and concoct some story that his life was in danger. ``We can't bring Mr. Scott back, but something like this today can have a bigger precedence than just what happened here with Mr. Scott. Because what happened today doesn't happen all the time,'' said L. Chris Stewart, an attorney for the Scott family, at a press conference. ``I don't think that all police officers are bad cops, but there are some bad ones out there. And I don't want to see anyone get shot down the way that my brother got shot down,'' said Anthony Scott, brother of the victim. ``What if there was no video ? What if there was no witness, or hero as I call him, to come forward ? Then this wouldn't have happened, because as you can see, the initial reports stated something totally different. The officer said that Mr. Scott attacked him and pulled his Taser and tried to use it on him. But somebody was watching,'' Stewart added. ``After watching the video, the senseless shooting and taking of #WalterScott's life was absolutely unnecessary and avoidable,'' tweeted Sen. Tim Scott. ``My heart aches for the family and our North Charleston community. I will be watching this case closely.''. Although the black community and others have been aware for years of the problem of police brutality, through personal experience and anecdotes, the data confirm that police use of deadly force is a black and white issue. A ProPublica analysis of police shootings from 2010 to 2012 found that young black males are 21 times more likely to be fatally shot by the police than young white males. And 67 % of teens killed while fleeing or resisting arrest were black. Of the whites who are killed by cops, 91 % are killed by white cops. Sixty-eight percent of people of color who are killed by police are also killed by white officers. Furthermore, 10 % of police involved in fatal shootings are black, and 78 % of the people killed by black officers are black. According to Cynthia Lee of George Washington University Law School, the disproportionate representation of blacks and other people of color in police shootings is due to the role of racial stereotypes by police. Racial stereotypes, Lee argues, subconsciously influence an officer's decision on whether to use deadly force, even if the police do not consciously decide to use deadly force based on race. A simple question posed to the officer by a black person could be perceived as a threat to the officer's authority. What's more, a Washington State University study on deadly force found that participants felt more threatened in scenarios involving black suspects, suggesting participants ``held subconscious biases associating blacks and threats.''. Scott is the latest in a long line of black bodies, from Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and Eric Garner in Staten Island, to John Crawford III near Dayton, Ohio, and Tanisha Anderson and Tamir Rice in Cleveland. In this case, the bystander video of Scott's killing and the cover-up of the crime by Slager made the difference. Otherwise, the bogus narrative of the good white cop protecting himself from the menacing black thug may have prevailed. What happened in North Charleston tells us the epidemic of police deadly force has not died. And yet, the mobilization and heightened consciousness of people across the nation have kept the issue on the front burner. The taking of black lives by the police remains a crisis situation in America that must be addressed, because #BlackLivesMatter. May Walter Scott rest in peace. The arrest and charging of Officer Michael Slager is a rare event that must be celebrated for the small victory that it is, in the midst of unspeakable tragedy. But this is by no means over.
( CNN ) It was a masterful performance. I watched in awe on Thursday as cardiothoracic surgeon and celebrity talk show host Mehmet Oz surfed a gargantuan wave of criticism to shore. I should have expected that Dr. Oz would keep standing in the face of charges from a group of colleagues that he pushed ``quack treatments.. for personal financial gain.''. And thanks to the ineptitude of his critics this round, he may have actually boosted his media empire. But he's increasingly serving himself at a cost to Columbia University and New York Presbyterian Hospital. If Dr. Oz was ever going to go down, surely his ship would've sunk last summer in the wake of his disastrous testimony before a Senate subcommittee. He was ostensibly invited to speak as an expert witness about bogus weight loss products,. But Sen. Claire McCaskill, chairwoman of the Senate's Consumer Protection Panel, instead made him her chief example of the kind of snake oil salesmen that keep hoodwinking consumers into thinking there's a quick fix for their expanding waistlines. John Oliver subsequently eviscerated Oz on his hit HBO show ``Last Week Tonight.'' In a segment that's now garnered over 6 million YouTube views, Oliver makes quick work of Oz's claims about ``magic'' green coffee beans, a product that's now earned a $ 9 million FTC fine for its false marketing claims. Despite his utter humiliation, Dr. Oz soldiered on, with his university and hospital continuing to stand by him, and with Harpo Productions and Sony, who co-produce ``The Dr. Oz Show,'' fully behind his program. If the U.S. Senate couldn't bring him down, what made this particular collection of 10 doctors think they could do it with their recent letter to Columbia University, where Dr. Oz holds a tenured professorship and administrative position in the Department of Surgery and performs his duties at Columbia-affiliated New York Presbyterian Hospital ?. The doctors insisted that the university must disassociate itself from Dr. Oz for his now well-established tendency to promote cure-alls more befitting 1915 than 2015. Turnabout is fair play. And Oz and his producers responded with alacrity, slicing and dicing his ill-prepared challengers with an investigative segment that would've made ``Dateline'' proud. He and his team score points with me for pointing out the media's own failings in delightedly circulating the letter without looking into the backgrounds of anyone involved. It's a simple matter to question ulterior motives when the letter itself takes pains to highlight Oz's critical attitude toward GMO foods, not one of his greatest indiscretions by a long shot. Dr. Oz after all has conducted experiments on his TV audience, apparently in violation of the rules of his own academic medical center. He has a propensity to spout laughably definitive statements with little to no scientific support, such as his advice that ``every kid in America ought to be on Omega-3 fatty acids and Vitamin D from either the sun or a pill'' because this regimen will help them withstand concussions. Instead of mounting a defense of the indefensible claims he delivers so easily and often, Dr. Oz routed his critics by quickly pivoting to the undercurrents of their letter. He correctly pointed out that several of the letter's signatories are GMO industry shills. One of the writers campaigned against a California proposition requiring GMO labeling, and one of the bunch even served time for felony Medicaid fraud. These characters never stood a chance in tipping the scales against Dr. Oz, but they got their headlines nonetheless. Dr. Oz was able to transition their critique of his apparent disregard for science on his program into an easily vanquished attack on his straightforward stand for consumers' right to accurate product labeling. When my wife first brought the letter to my attention, I immediately wanted to know whether these were Columbia physicians. This whole affair would've played out quite differently if a slate of credible colleagues based at his own institution were coming out against Dr. Oz. So far they've made no demand for his resignation, though some colleagues made their discomfort public in an op-ed for USAToday last week. Dr. Oz is well-aware that some colleagues question him, discussing that tension in his Time magazine op-ed. He says he doesn't expect all physicians to understand his approach to health promotion, where he's willing to entertain just about everything, even seances. The closed, physician-only social network Sermo issued Dr. Oz numerous questions from its membership, none of which Dr. Oz answered. They are revelatory of physician attitudes toward him nonetheless. One doc asked Dr. Oz how he could keep up with the fast-changing world of cardiothoracic surgery and carry on with his show every weekday. Another asked him how he knows so much about so many areas of medicine -- ``Ru board certified n all these areas ?''. Both types of questions show the profound disconnect between most physicians, who tend not to speak unless they are certain in their expertise on a topic, and the way the media industry works. Dr. Oz's show doesn't require he stay up late at night prepping for the next day -- he has an office full of production staff behind him. Let's take it as a given that not every physician across America, or at Columbia, has to agree with what Dr. Oz says on his program. I certainly don't. Does he have the right to say it ? Yes, but not without challenge. A real case can be made that Dr. Oz has used his media megaphone to do harm as well as good. He is now a polarizing figure, and while Columbia University should be lauded for protecting the free speech of its academic staff, the equation with Dr. Oz is becoming increasingly complex. He's no longer simply good PR for the University and New York Presbyterian Hospital, which is often featured in his show. The letter writers were correct about one thing : Columbia's reputation is now linked with the Big Kahuna standing right out in front.
( CNN ) A man charged with planning the deadly 2008 Mumbai terror attacks in India has been released on bail in Pakistan after years of detention, prompting sharp criticism from India. Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, a top leader of the terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba, was released early Friday from a jail in the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi, according to Yahya Mujahid, spokesman for Jamaat-ud-Dawa, a group with which Lakhvi is affiliated. Lakhvi was charged in Pakistan in 2009, accused of masterminding the November 2008 terror attacks that left more than 160 people dead in Mumbai, India's most populous city. Lakhvi still faces trial in the case. But an anti-terrorism court granted Lakhvi bail last year, a decision the Pakistani government said it would challenge. That challenge lasted until Thursday, when the Lahore High Court ordered his release, CNN affiliate and Pakistani outlet GEO News reported. Lakhvi posted bail totaling 2 million Pakistani rupees ( more than $ 19,000 ), according to GEO News. India, Pakistan's neighbor and rival, condemned Lakhvi's bail release on Friday. The country contacted Pakistan's foreign secretary to underline ``that this has reinforced the perception that Pakistan has a dual policy on dealing with terrorists, and those who have carried out attacks or are posing a threat to India are being dealt with differently,'' said Syed Akbaruddin, a spokesman for India's Ministry of External Affairs. The accusation that Pakistan might treat India differently highlights long-running tensions between the two nuclear-armed neighbors, which have fought three wars against each other since their partition at the end of British colonial rule. Pakistan's Foreign Office responded Friday by saying, ``It would not be proper to cast aspersions on Pakistan's commitment to countering terrorism at a time when Pakistan has entered a critical stage of defeating the menace of terrorism.''. The Foreign Office also blamed what it said was India's delay in cooperating in the case, saying it ``weakened the prosecution.''. In the Mumbai attacks, heavily armed men stormed landmark buildings around Mumbai, including luxury hotels, the city's historic Victoria Terminus train station and a Jewish cultural center. India executed the last surviving gunman from the attacks in 2012. Other suspects were all killed during the series of attacks, which went on for three days. More about the Mumbai attacks. CNN's Harmeet Singh contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A California woman who was recording police activity said she was terrified when a deputy U.S. marshal walked toward her, grabbed her cell phone out of her hands and smashed it with his foot. The incident was recorded by another woman with a smartphone camera across the street. Beatriz Paez filed a complaint Wednesday with police in South Gate, just south of Los Angeles. However, the police don't have authority over marshals. Paez is also considering a lawsuit. Paez said she was out walking Sunday when she noticed what looked like an arrest several houses up the street. She stood on the sidewalk, recording with her phone. The woman said marshals asked her to stop recording but she told them she had a right to do so. The second woman who was recording had focused on the interaction between Paez and the marshals, who Paez said told her to stop recording. At one point on the video you can hear Paez say, ``You're making me feel unsafe. I have a right to be here.''. Paez said she was a few homes away from the center of the police activity. In the video, an officer with a rifle walks in her direction. ``I was terrified. I was getting really scared,'' she said. As he gets close, the marshal then runs a few steps toward her and wrestles the phone from her hands. Paez said he stomped on it then kicked it away. It is unclear what happened to the video she recorded. The U.S. Marshals Service said it is reviewing the incident. Janice Hahn, the U.S. representative for Paez's district, told CNN's ``Erin Burnett OutFront'' that she had written a letter to outgoing U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. Hahn said she wants a federal investigation into the actions of the officer. She called the marshal's actions illegal because Paez wasn't hindering an investigation or arrest.
( CNN ) The victory of a 72-year-old former general, Muhammadu Buhari, in the Nigerian elections represents a moment of maturity in West African politics. Buhari, who some 30 years ago was Nigeria's harsh military leader, could of course prove to be a disaster ; so many self-described reformers have been. swath. But the peaceful transition of power from President Goodluck Jonathan to President Buhari is the first of its kind in history. And the fact that the winner ran on an anti-corruption platform suggests that ordinary Nigerians have finally had enough of the venality of their elites. For too long, Nigeria's poor have been victims of their country's enormous wealth. The cancer of corruption has to be cut out. I visited Nigeria in January and found a country under siege. Abuja, the capital city, is where the rich have always imagined themselves making their last stand. Soldiers guard the treacherous motorways ; houses are compounds covered in barbed wire. It's a place where poor children rise at dawn to sift through the trash cans for food and black magic is practiced by the side of the road at dusk. Yet thanks to Nigeria's oil, there is also tremendous wealth in Abuja. And when you don't really make money but simply take it from the soil and sell it, a crude kind of crony capitalism develops in which who you know is far more important than what you know. Graft trickles down through the system ; through family, through patronage and through shady deals done with foreign businessmen at the 24-hour party palace at the Abuja Hilton Hotel. The richest buy off the anger of the poorest, and vast swaths of society become complicit in the crime. For a while, that system brought some stability to the government of Jonathan. But stability was contingent upon oil remaining at $ 110 a barrel, and in recent months the price has collapsed to below $ 50 a barrel. Lacking funds, the government could no longer promise jobs to voters and had to start thinking creatively about serious economic development. One was the massive privatization of the power system, a sensible idea that promised to take energy provision out of the hands of a broken state and give it to businessmen to run. The problem is that costly investment and redevelopment didn't come soon enough : Millions were left without power and the government's few bold attempts at reform smacked of betrayal. The problem of corruption went hand-in-glove with the rise of terrorism. Nigeria is not a natural, comfortable nation state ; it's composed of many ethnicities and two major competing religions. The south is dominated by Christians like Jonathan, the north by Muslims like Buhari. And the north has witnessed a brutal, bloody terrorist insurgency led by Boko Haram, which translates as ``Western education is forbidden.''. Westerners might assume that Boko Haram's major target is the Christian south but, in fact, its war is as much against nonfundamentalist Muslims as it is non-Muslims, and its attacks have generally been focused on Islamic population centers. Failure to deal with this has not entirely been due to Boko Haram's strategic ingenuity. Previous administrations have simply been too dysfunctional to fight a war on terror. In 2010, for instance, the government awarded a $ 470 million contract to provide security in Abuja. Few of the promised cameras were installed, yet the money was still paid in full. And soldiers sent to the front report being poorly equipped. The government is thought to have resorted to trying to purchase arms on the international black market, according to news reports -- although this is the kind of story that is hard to verify due to bans on granting visas to foreign journalists ( I was in Nigeria as a consultant on a business visa ). What is directly observable is that while the government proved capable of providing security in some areas, in others it utterly failed. And the Jonathan government might have benefited from the Boko Haram terrorist emergency continuing in Muslim centers, for the Muslims were far more likely to vote for Buhari. For Buhari to win, he had to draw large numbers of votes in Christian areas -- and there, again, a Western prejudice is challenged. The victory of a Muslim candidate in Nigeria does not represent the victory of Islamism, as we have so often been told by those skeptical of the ability of the Muslim world to govern itself. On the contrary, Buhari is associated with an earlier period in Nigerian history when the army was relatively well paid and respected. He ran the country in the early 1980s along dictatorial lines, for sure. But he also ran a War Against Indiscipline when in power in which civil servants who were late to work were ordered to do frog jumps, drug dealers were publicly executed, and some 474 politicians and business were arrested on charges of corruption. Buhari was removed in a coup, and he left office with the rare distinction of not having made very much money from it. Now he has won the presidency promising to tackle those intertwined problems of Boko Haram and corruption. Get the army functioning properly again, Nigerians hope, and it will be able to drive back the fundamentalists. Buhari has his critics, many of whom charge him with misrepresenting his CV and being a closet authoritarian. But they can not deny that he has won this historic victory because he has touched a chord with a people exhausted by years of misrule. You can only bribe the voters for so long before the squalor becomes too much to bear.
( CNN ) It's not going to be enough to slake the thirst of the elusive Mars bunny, but scientists say new research seems to support the theory that what looks like a bone-dry red planet during the day could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night. Experts have long thought that a particular kind of salt detected in Martian soil could pull water vapor from the the planet's thin atmosphere into the soil at night and then keep it from freezing despite the extreme cold. Researchers aren't saying they've seen direct evidence of brine hiding out in the Martian night. But they say the new study -- based on a full year of monitoring of temperature and humidity conditions by the Mars Curiosity rover in Gale Crater -- does seem to bear the theory out. ``Gale Crater is one of the least likely places on Mars to have conditions for brines to form, compared to sites at higher latitudes or with more shading,'' said Alfred McEwen of the University of Arizona at Tucson, a co-author of the new report. NASA chief scientist : `Indications' of alien life by 2025. ``So if brines can exist there, that strengthens the case they could form and persist even longer at many other locations,'' possibly explaining channels seen on Mars that appear be formed by running water, he said. Researchers say Mars may once have had an sea as extensive as Earth's Atlantic Ocean, and Curiosity has found evidence of ancient streambeds and a lake on the planet. The vast majority of that water has been lost to space over the eons, leaving Mars an overwhelmingly dry and inhospitable place. The new study doesn't change the picture for life on Mars. The researchers say the temperatures they measured are too low and water too scarce ``to support terrestrial organisms'' ( sorry, bunny fans ). But scientists say evidence of water ice at the planet's poles and now more evidence toward the theory of widespread brines keeps them hoping they'll find evidence that life at least once existed there. ``Liquid water is a requirement for life as we know it, and a target for Mars exploration missions,'' lead author Javier Martin-Torres said in a statement. ``Conditions near the surface of present-day Mars are hardly favorable for microbial life as we know it,'' he said, ``but the possibility for liquid brines on Mars has wider implications for habitability and geological water-related processes.''. In other words, we'll keep looking. Mars is the next step for humanity -- we must take it.
( CNN ) North Korea is in the headlines again. According to a Wall Street Journal report Thursday, Chinese nuclear experts have told the United States that Pyongyang may already have as many as 20 nuclear warheads. And while that number may seem stunning, it is actually only part of a troubling story. The key takeaway from the latest assessment of North Korea's nuclear capability is not in the actual number of warheads, but the type of warhead, as this gives a better clue to the future of the country's weapons capabilities. True, the reported Chinese estimate of 20 warheads is large enough to constitute a nuclear ``arsenal.'' However, this number is not actually significantly larger than conventional open source estimates of 10 to 15 warheads previously provided by U.S. and other experts. The big takeaway from the report is instead the prediction that North Korea could be in a position to double its arsenal by next year with weapons-grade uranium. If that assessment is correct, and Pyongyang can indeed boost its nuclear stockpile by the end of this year to around 40 warheads by utilizing highly-enriched weapons-grade uranium, then the plutonium program that the U.S. and members of the Six-Party talks had been negotiating over this past quarter century would suddenly seem trivial. After all, the plutonium program might be capable of spitting out maybe a few weapons worth of plutonium annually. This news could be much more serious. Why ? For a start, it would mean that North Korea's activities would undoubtedly meet the definition, if it had not already, of a runaway nuclear weapons program, with the potential to be fueled by a large supply of raw uranium buried in North Korea's mines. In addition, while the plutonium program at Yongbyon has a clear and detectable profile, the thousands of centrifuges that spin in a uranium-based program have no detectable heat signature or topographic profile, meaning you could store the stuff not just in the labyrinth of underground tunnels in North Korea, undetectable from the sky, but in any large warehouse. Washington and Seoul have tended to have a policy that leans toward downplaying North Korean threats, at least when there isn't a full-fledged crisis going on. For example, the United States downplayed North Korea's missile threat until the country successfully put a satellite into orbit in December 2012. And up until 2006, no one thought the Kim regime would actually dare undertake a nuclear test. These new estimates could therefore be a timely reminder that we may have downplayed the threat North Korea poses once again. But Thursday's report isn't the only troubling information we have had recently. Just as concerning is the NORAD commander's assessment on North Korea's missile capabilities. On April 7, Adm. Bill Gortney said during a press briefing that the Defense Department believed Pyongyang's KN-08 intercontinental ballistic missile ( ICBM ) is operational, with a warhead capacity. This statement is troubling for two reasons. First, Gortney's statement, when combined with the latest Chinese assessment, implies that North Korea now not only has nuclear weapons, but the ability to miniaturize such weapons for a warhead that could be placed atop a missile with range rings extending to the U.S. mainland. Second, and just as importantly, Pyongyang's advances in mobile ICBM capabilities could end up undermining the state of stable deterrence that currently exists on the Korean Peninsula. Put simply, these capabilities could give North Korea confidence that it is immune from any U.S. counterstrikes. And if that ends up being the case, the United States could find itself with a renewed headache in Asia -- and its carefully calibrated plans for its pivot to the region crumbling.
( CNN ) Novak Djokovic extended his current winning streak to 17 matches after beating Thomas Berdych 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 in the rain-interrupted final of the Monte Carlo Masters. But the Serbian world number one didn't have it all his away under uncharacteristically slate gray skies on the Mediterranean coast. Tight. Djokovic edged a tight first set before losing the second after the Czech sixth seed took advantage of the short rain delay and came back strongly. But Djokovic broke twice early in the third set to surge to a 4-0 lead. And although Berdych gamely fought back Djokovic served out for the title. ``It was a tough match, a particular match,'' said Djokovic after winning his 52nd career title, and his second Monte Carlo Masters championship. ``Tomas played a great match and deserves this trophy as much as I do,'' he added. ``It was a good final, but bad luck today.''. Despite running Djokovic close it was Berdych's third loss in a final this year. ``What can I say ? Novak had another excellent week,'' he said. ``I tried my best but it was not good enough today. I'm missing that one step in my clay game but I'm going to work to raise my game that little bit. I'll do what I can to make that happen and hope to come back next year and go a step further''.''. Strong start. 2015 has been a sensational year for Djokovic so far. After winning the Australian Open back in January, Djokovic has followed up with Masters' victories at Indian Wells and Miami. He then beat Rafa Nadal, arguably one of the greatest players on clay of all time, in the semi finals in Monte Carlo. Sunday's victory over Berdych means he becomes the first man to win the opening three Masters tournaments of the season.
New York ( CNN ) New York state authorities have issued a health alert following a dramatic spike in hospital visits for synthetic marijuana-related emergencies. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Friday that more than 160 patients in nine days have been rushed to hospitals across the state for adverse reactions to synthetic cannabinoid, known as ``spice'' or ``K2.''. ``Spice'' and other similar synthetic drugs are often marketed as legal plant material coated with chemicals that are supposed to mimic the effects of marijuana, according to a statement from the governor's office. ``Since the exact compounds contained in synthetic cannabinoid products change so frequently, it's often impossible for users to know exactly what they are putting in their body,'' acting New York State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said. Symptoms after use have a wide range of severity, from confusion, drowsiness and headaches to increased heart rate, seizures and loss of consciousness, according to the New York State Department of Health. Synthetic marijuana is popular among teens because it is marketed as incense or natural products to ``mask its true purpose,'' the health department statement said. ``Young people may be fooled into thinking that these substances are safe because they are sold over the counter or are in colorful packaging, but they are not made for human consumption,'' New York Alcohol and Substance Abuse Service s Commissioner Arlene Gonzalez Sanchez said. ``They are dangerous and can have significant, long-term effects on the brain.''. The recent surge is not isolated in New York ; other states across the country have noticed similar trends. Alabama Department of Public Health issued a statement last week acknowledging a rise of synthetic marijuana usage and said there had been 98 overdoses suspected to be linked with ``spice'' in the previous month. Mobile County alone has seen seven cases in 2015 so far, more than the entire previous year, the statement said. Mississippi health officials are also concerned that synthetic marijuana is on the rise. Ninety-seven cases over an eight-day span in April were reported to the Mississippi Poison Control Center, a Department of Health press release said.
( CNN ) An Egyptian court sentenced the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mohamed Badie, on Saturday to death by hanging, along with 13 members of his group. The sentences will be appealed. The criminal court sentenced 36 other defendants to life in prison on charges of plotting terrorist attacks against state facilities. They faced charges that include ``funding the Rabaa al-Adawiya sit-in'' -- a mass protest in Cairo in August 2013 that was forcibly dispersed by security personnel -- and spreading ``false information'' to destabilize Egypt. They were arrested in a sweeping crackdown on supporters of former President Mohamed Morsy, the country's first democratically elected president, who was overthrown in 2013 in a military coup that bitterly split Egyptians. One of those sentenced to life in prison was Mohamad Soltan, a 27-year-old U.S.-Egyptian activist. He has been languishing in Cairo's notorious Tora Prison, where he has been on a hunger strike for more than 14 months. The U.S. State Department released a statement condemning Soltan's sentence and calling for his release on humanitarian grounds. The presiding judge for Badie, Soltan and the other defendants was Mohamed Nagy Shehata, who is known for his harsh verdicts. Shehata has sentenced more than 180 people to death and was the original judge in a high-profile case case involving Al Jazeera journalists. Badie had been sentenced to death before on a conviction related to a deadly attack on a police station. He has also been sentenced to life in prison for inciting violence during 2013's unrest. The Egyptian news outlet Al Ahram reported that Badie had been sentenced to death twice before, but an appeals court overturned one verdict, and Egypt's Grand Mufti disapproved of the other. During the summer of unrest, hundreds of people died when the police forcefully cleared camps set up by protesting Morsy supporters and when security forces opened fire on Morsy backers who attacked police stations, government buildings and churches. The government accused the protesters of inciting violence. After the coup, the new government outlawed the Muslim Brotherhood. Morsy was arrested, and he too faces trial. Soltan's sister, Hanaa, is anxious about what the future holds for her family. She wrote a letter to her brother expressing her feelings. ``Dear Mohamed,'' the letter read. ``I'm often asked why, and how, you've kept up your hunger strike for 14 months now, despite our pleas for you to end it. I've watched your body go from a plump basketball-playing frame to one that has withered down to its bones. ``Your face, with its beautiful smile often grinning, now looks permanently in pain. And, all I can do to explain is to tell people that it's the only form of control you have to hold on to -- now more than ever, on the eve of your sentencing.''. CNN's Don Melvin contributed to this report.
( CNN ) This is a difficult but necessary thing to say : Incidents of police-involved killings and assaults on unarmed African-Americans are unlikely to end soon. That's partly because police brutality is neither new nor reflective of a ``moment.'' And it's also because we have not yet shown the resolve needed to end it. This is a reality we must face if we are going to reverse course from what has become a national crisis. The peaceful protests that were followed by outbreaks of violence in Baltimore this week have underscored the danger of ignoring the crisis -- as frustration and impatience with the status quo boils over. The violent response of police officers to unarmed African-Americans is a decades-long phenomenon that has too often been dismissed as ``race card'' politics and black grievance. But this year's spate of killings and assaults, from Ferguson, Missouri, to North Charleston, South Carolina, to most recently Baltimore, are part of a deadly continuum of conduct that has created a well of resentment and anger in the African-American community. So what makes now different ? The advent of cell phone cameras and social media has for the first time allowed average citizens to document police brutality routinely and to disseminate these images nationally. As a result, it is no longer possible for officials and commentators to downplay or deny the existence of police brutality against unarmed African-Americans as has happened in the past. To call this ugly and unrelenting wave of police violence against unarmed African-Americans a national crisis is not an exaggeration -- we are losing the confidence of a generation of young people who no longer believe in the legitimacy or credibility of our law enforcement and the justice system that underpins it. A true democracy draws its strength from the confidence of its citizens in the bedrock institutions. The loss of that confidence threatens the very foundation of our legal system. How do we face this crisis ?. First, we must recognize that there are no quick fixes. The culture of policing in cities such as New York and Baltimore has developed over decades. Policing is a job passed down through families in which law enforcement norms and narratives are shared around the dinner table as much as in the station house. To subvert that culture will require vigorous, targeted and consistent training. That training must include a focus on managing implicit bias, encounters with the mentally ill and how best to de-escalate encounters with members of the community, especially young people. Training must be accompanied by supervision and accountability for officers who fail to conform their behavior to training principles. President Barack Obama is right when he reminds us that policing, like education, is a function of state and local government. And it's true that his options are limited. And yet the federal government has proven to be quite adept at influencing education policy in states and cities. How ? By conditioning federal funds on compliance with federal standards. In contrast, while the Department of Justice provides more than $ 1 billion annually in grants to police departments across the country, those funds are provided free from obligations that awardees adopt federal standards on training, data collection or other measures with an explicit anti-racial bias focus. That must change. Also, the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department must be properly funded to investigate any police departments suspected of engaging in a pattern and practice of discrimination. Such investigations doubled to more than 20 under Attorney General Eric Holder, but given the nearly 30,000 police departments spread across the country, this is woefully inadequate. It's been reported that nearly every investigation conducted by the department has resulted in a finding of a pattern and practice of discrimination. The results in places such as Seattle and Cincinnati, where the departments worked with local officials to negotiate changes to local police practices, are promising. But the $ 12 million currently allocated to these investigations nationwide is a shameful pittance. Much has been made of rogue police officers, ``bad apples'' and other aberrant actors in the criminal justice system. They undoubtedly exist. But the failure of local law enforcement leadership to vigorously and aggressively discipline, punish and, where appropriate, remove those officers from police forces around the country has allowed the bad apples to spoil the whole bunch. There must be zero tolerance for racism, brutality and corruption in police departments. Making this change will require law enforcement to value the integrity of the badge over the unquestioning solidarity that has too often resulted in the protection of officers who have committed egregious acts. Yet until police officers come to expect swift and certain punishment for violating their oath to protect and serve, we are unlikely to see a real decrease in incidents of racially motivated police brutality. Ultimately, the crisis we face presents an opportunity to rethink policing in this country fundamentally, including who we decide to recruit to serve. Former Baltimore Police Commissioner Leonard Hamm, for example, has told me he was always skeptical of new police recruits who expressed a desire to become narcotics or homicide detectives. That thinking reflects a spirit of adventure, he told me, rather than a spirit of service. Hamm is right -- policing is, at its core, a service profession. Those we select for this difficult and dangerous job should not only demonstrate mental toughness, courage and smarts, but also integrity, maturity, empathy and a commitment to the communities they serve. A national crisis requires a national response, and that means that federal, state and local law enforcement leaders and organizations must honestly and aggressively move to end police brutality. Until we see that kind of wholesale engagement, the lives of innocent people -- and the integrity of our legal system -- hangs in the balance.
( CNN ) The cast of ``The Breakfast Crew'' escaped from Principal Richard Vernon 30 years ago, but a draft script of the 1985 teen classic has just been found in a filing cabinet in the school district where it was filmed, the Chicago Tribune reported. ``One day a few weeks ago, one of the assistants was going through a filing cabinet and found a file that had a manuscript from `The Breakfast Club' dated Sept. 21, 1983,'' Ken Wallace, superintendent of Maine Township High School District 207 in suburban Chicago, told the newspaper. ``It's a first draft of the screenplay by John Hughes,'' Wallace said. The manuscript sports the approval signature of the district's then-superintendent and reveals that Molly Ringwald's character, Claire Standish, was originally to be named Cathy Douglas, according to the Tribune. The movie was filmed at the Maine North High School building, which was auctioned off by the district years ago and is now occupied by the Illinois State Police, according to the Tribune. The file was discovered at Maine South High School as district officials prepared to move to a newly acquired building next door. Wallace told the Tribune that he would like to find a way to display the script as a piece of film -- and district -- history. ``The odds of having such an iconic movie filmed and associated with your district are astronomical,'' he told the newspaper. ``The Breakfast Club'' returns to theaters 30 years later.
( CNN ) Monty Python in a movie ?. What a silly idea. But the timing was right for the gang of British comedians ( along with their token American, Terry Gilliam ), who were looking to hit the big screen after four seasons of ``Monty Python's Flying Circus,'' their groundbreaking British TV series. ``Monty Python and the Holy Grail,'' which premiered 40 years ago Thursday, was the result. The movie, a spoof of the Arthurian legend, did not start auspiciously. The budget was small -- about $ 400,000, half of it supplied by rock stars, including Genesis and Pink Floyd. On the first day of filming in Scotland -- the first shot, in fact -- the camera broke. The weather was bad. The hotel was dismal. Python member Graham Chapman was suffering from alcohol withdrawal. It got better. On the day of its first American screening in New York, a thousand people were in line by 8 a.m. Thanks to the popularity of ``Python'' on American TV, the movie was a box-office hit, making $ 5 million -- more than 10 times its budget. More importantly, it soon became a comedy classic. The dialogue alone has been widely quoted, with such lines as ``It's just a flesh wound'' and ``Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries'' referenced on shows such as ``The Simpsons,'' ``Game of Thrones'' and ``The Blacklist.'' Python member Eric Idle turned the film into the Tony-winning Broadway play ``Spamalot.''. The troupe ended up making three movies -- well, four, if you count ``And Now for Something Completely Different,'' five if you include ``Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl,'' five-and-a-half if you allow ``The Rutles,'' six if you.. well, three. We'll say three. Is there a best one ? Where should you start ?. Let's break them down :. From its dramatic opening credits featuring fake-Swedish subtitles to the adventures of Sir Launcelot ( ``the boldest and most expensive of the knights'' ), weighted-bird computations and sudden animator heart attacks, ``Holy Grail'' is probably the loosest and most Python-esque of the Python oeuvre. As a movie with a plot and character and all that movie nonsense, it falls short -- but as a repository for some of Python's best gags, it remains perhaps the best ( and certainly most quotable ) of the bunch. Besides, it features the word ``shrubbery.''. '' `Grail' is a bit like' A Hard Day's Night,''' Idle observed in the Pythons' autobiography. ``It's got a joie de vivre that's very infectious, it's very hard not to like.''. Pros : The dialogue. The Black Knight. The Knights Who Say ``Ni.''. Cons : It's sometimes sloppy. And it doesn't really have an ending. Verdict : Better than a cheese shop full of ex-parrots. Probably Python's most consistent movie, ``Life of Brian'' is the story of a guy born down the road from Jesus who finds himself hailed as a messiah and ends up crucified. It was a satire on organized religion, first-century politics and zealotry -- one of the best bits is the ongoing argument between ``the People's Front of Judea'' and ``the Judean People's Front'' -- but try telling that to the protesters. The film was picketed in cities across the United States, deplored by some religious leaders and banned in Ireland and Norway. ( Sweden promoted it with the line, ``The film so funny that it was banned in Norway.'' ). It did have one huge supporter : ex-Beatle George Harrison, who mortgaged his estate to help fund the movie when a financier pulled out. ``He paid for it because he wanted to see it,'' Idle recalled. ``The most anybody's ever paid for a cinema ticket in history.''. Pros : Graham Chapman's performance as Brian. ``What have the Romans ever done for us ?'' ``Always Look on the Bright Side of Life.''. Cons : The adventurous but ultimately pointless animated-alien scene. Michael Palin's lisping Pilate ( though, to be fair, it's so childishly broad you can't help but laugh ). Verdict : Funnier than the Spanish Inquisition. ``Meaning of Life,'' constructed as a series of sketches, is the most uneven of the three narrative Python films. After the stunning opening sequence, Gilliam's ``The Crimson Permanent Assurance'' -- about the revenge of some pirate-like accountants -- the film struggles to find its footing. Even the Pythons thought so. ``The rhythms weren't right,'' said Gilliam. ``It needed a whole other rewrite,'' said Idle. Nevertheless, it has its moments : the ``Every Sperm Is Sacred'' sequence, about religion, sex and contraception ; the organ donor who's surprised by a demand for his liver ; and -- of course -- the infamous Mr. Creosote, the absurdly fat man who gorges on a monstrous meal at a posh restaurant, regurgitates it at length, and is then encouraged to have a ``wafer-thin'' after-dinner mint -- with disastrous results. It also has the sweetest of all Python songs : Idle's ``The Galaxy Song,'' which is even more uplifting than ``Brian's'' ``Always Look on the Bright Side of Life.'' Not a bad conclusion, given what happened to Mr. Creosote. Pros : ``Permanent Assurance.'' Mr. Creosote. ``The Galaxy Song.''. Cons : The fish. The schoolmaster's sex lesson. The fish. Verdict : More enjoyable than watching the Upper-Class Twit of the Year competition.
( CNN ) Amy Schumer seems to be trying single-handedly this week to make everyone in America laugh. And she's off to a good start. The comedian took a fake tumble on the red carpet Tuesday night at the 2015 TIME 100 gala in New York -- right in front of fellow honorees Kanye West and Kim Kardashian, who stepped around her as they moved down the line. The stunt drew guffaws from the paparazzi and other onlookers, although Kanye -- perhaps not used to being upstaged -- looked unamused. ``I saw them, and I asked my publicist, `Can I dive in front of them and act like I fell ?' And she said,' I can't stop you,''' Schumer told People. The prank came the same night the third season of Schumer's hit show, ``Inside Amy Schumer,'' premiered on Comedy Central. The episode has won praise for its ``Milk Milk Lemonade'' video, which ridicules mens' obsession with a certain female body part, and a ``Friday Night Lights'' parody in which high school football players protest their new coach's ``no raping'' policy. And it came the night after Schumer appeared on CBS' ``The Late Show'' and turned David Letterman red-faced when she lifted her dress to show him a scar she got from surfing and said, ``That's my vagina.''. Letterman, who had urged her to ``do something now that you'll regret,'' turned to the chortling audience and said, ``Well, I asked for it, didn't I ?''. So yes, you can say Schumer -- who in the past two weeks has graced the cover of Entertainment Weekly, hosted the MTV Movie Awards and learned her TV show was just renewed for a fourth season -- is having a moment. ``They were right there ! The epicenter of American ( celebrity culture. ) Got ta do it,'' Schumer told People about her Kimye red carpet dive. ``It was the best.''
( CNN ) Tuesday, April 14, is Equal Pay Day. Here's the announcement presidential candidate Hillary Clinton should make :. ``Today in America, women earn on average 77 cents for every dollar men earn. And the gap is even greater for women of color. That's unconscionable. As president, my top priority will be fixing inequality and ensuring that 100 % of the population is paid 100 % of what they're worth. And so, I'm announcing that if elected president, I will take a 23 % pay cut, equivalent to the current gender wage gap, to stand in solidarity with working women in America. And I won't take a raise until every woman in America gets a raise, too.''. April 14 wasn't just chosen at random as Equal Pay Day. It's based on a calculation : For women to make the same amount of money that men made in 2014, they'd have to work until April 14, 2015. A woman on average loses $ 431,000 in pay over the course of a 40-year career. Merely closing the gender wage gap would pull half of working single moms out of poverty. And at a time where Republicans are still, bizarrely, trumpeting more tax breaks for business and the rich to stimulate the economy, closing the pay gap would put money in the pockets of working people who would actually spend and stimulate real growth. The new women warriors : Reviving the fight for equal rights. So here's the perfect opportunity for Hillary Clinton to put her money where her mouth is, literally. In her campaign launch and personal rebrand, Clinton is clearly trying to portray herself as a woman of the people, a populist fighter for the middle class. ``Everyday Americans need a champion,'' Clinton said in her campaign launch video, ``and I want to be that champion.''. Clinton has deftly put her finger in the wind and sensed the winds of populism blowing through America. Indeed, the fact that many Democratic voters still clamor for a less pro-war, less pro-Wall Street, more Elizabeth Warren-like alternative to Clinton is an ever-present thorn in the otherwise blooming garden of Clinton's inevitability. Opinion : The myth of Equal Pay Day. With her video, Clinton has signaled a clear desire to ground herself and her candidacy in the soil of populism. But can a wealthy white woman who once sat on the board of Walmart, has already lived in the White House, collects six-figure speaking fees and doesn't seem to own a pair of jeans really inhabit the portrait of a populist fighter ?. This is where a good ol' - fashioned political stunt would come in handy. And make no mistake about it, I'm recommending a political stunt. Let's call a spade a spade. Hillary Clinton is a very rich person. While she's certainly not the first rich person to run for president, her wealth -- and the related perception of being out of touch with ordinary Americans -- is an obstacle in her candidacy. The difference between the current standard presidential salary of $ 400,000 a year and the 77 cents-on-the-dollar version of that salary, or $ 308,000, is probably a drop in the bucket in Clinton's bank account at this point. And yet the symbolic power is profound. Because what Clinton would be reminding us is that across America, the aggregate salaries of all working women is 23 % less than the aggregate salaries of all men. 78 cents on the dollar : The facts about the gender wage gap. Thanks to the hacked Sony emails, we saw that even top female stars and executives in Hollywood are paid less than their male counterparts. What more powerful message could the potential first female president send than literally signifying that nationwide inequity in her own salary ? Clinton wouldn't just be saying she stands with the working women of America, she'd be showing it. Is it offensive to suggest that the first female commander in chief should be paid 23 % less than her male predecessors for doing exactly the same work ? Yes. And that's the point -- to use her status to highlight the offensive gender wage gap and what Clinton, as president, would do to fix it. Yes, such stunts are trite and theatrical. They're also effective, especially in our increasingly short-attention-span, it-only-happened-if-you-can-tweet it, symbolism-over-substance culture. Politics used to be about clunky people ( mostly men ) debating complex policies. Now it's about polished memes and even more polished candidates. Policy ( I hope ) still matters, but we're as likely to debate a candidate's ``image'' as her or his ``substance.''. The truth is that stunts and theatrics are now part and parcel of politics, as they are in our culture in general. That doesn't mean they can't also serve a noble purpose, in highlighting important problems and inspiring solutions. Map : Where the gender pay gap is the widest. Clinton did an arguably brilliant thing in her campaign launch, framing her video and presidential bid as not about her but the American people. In fact, Clinton didn't even appear in the video until the very end -- it was all about middle-class Americans, working hard, trying to get by and get ahead. And then we see Hillary, who wants to help. Hillary Clinton can't change who she is, the baggage attached to her by both the right and the left, rightly or wrongly. But she can change what she does going forward, how she shows up and signifies herself as a voice not for the status quo and the establishment -- but for ordinary Americans who need change. If Clinton wins, her presidency will indeed be symbolic and historic. And it will be significant if she does something to change the lives of the 158 million women in America.
( CNN ) Tuesday is Equal Pay Day, the fictitious holiday marked by progressive women's groups as the point in the year women would have to work to make up for ``lost'' wages as a result of the so-called wage gap. In the wake of Hillary Clinton's presidential announcement, the ``holiday'' has special meaning. Clinton's election will no doubt center on women voters, and the Democratic women's agenda centers on pay equity and fairness in the workplace. Here's the thing : That 77-cent wage gap statistic is grossly overstated. It's a comparison of averages -- comparing full-time working women with full-time working men -- that doesn't control for any of the important factors that go into determining one's salary such as education, profession, title, time spent in the workforce and time spent in the office each day, to name a few. When we do control for these variables, a much smaller wage gap persists of about 4-6 cents, some of which may be the result of gender discrimination, but also is likely a function of women's choices and different behavior, such as not negotiating as often as men do -- factors for which economists simply can't control. The new women warriors : Reviving the fight for equal rights. I frequently reference my own experience as a working mom with young children as an example of someone who not only made the ``mistake'' of majoring in history but then pursued a career in the nonprofit political world -- not exactly a winning combination if a high salary is the ultimate goal. Add to this the fact that I took time out of the workplace and worked part time to have a family, and my earning potential simply isn't as high as some of my male counterparts. Opinion : Why Hillary Clinton should take a pay cut. Still, conservatives -- and by extension Republicans -- ought to be paying attention to Equal Pay Day. Because for many on the right the midterm election victories signaled that the ``war on women'' narrative was over. That Democrats had overplayed their hand and that candidates such as Colorado's Mark Udall simply couldn't succeed. In some respects, Republicans are right. Voters did choose policy substance over gendered rhetoric, and in many ways they rejected the insidious ``war on women'' narrative. The facts about the gender wage gap. But women voters are valuable, and Equal Pay Day ought to be a reminder that Democrats aren't ready to surrender. Let's remember a 5-point national gender gap still remains in the Democrats' favor. Bottom line : The ``war on women'' narrative hasn't been turned off -- it's simply shifted gears. And with the presidential election season just revving up, we can expect to see the ``war on women'' focus turn to the workplace, where Democrats will claim women are paid unfairly, not given the paid leave benefits they deserve and not given the child care support they demand. Many on the right fear if they try to push back on the issue of pay equity they will be skewered in the polls. But nothing could be further from the truth. Map : Where the gender pay gap is the widest. The Independent Women's Forum conducted a randomized, controlled experiment on the issue of the wage gap, and we found that not surprisingly the progressive message in favor of the Paycheck Fairness Act -- a legislative ``solution'' to close the pay gap -- increased support for the bill but surprisingly was not effective at increasing support for Democrats. In short, if the right is silent on the issue, the left has the potential to win the battle but not the war. It's tempting on days such as Equal Pay Day for Republicans to want to lie low -- to ignore the rhetoric and hope it will all go away by Wednesday. But the reality is that's the worst thing conservatives can do. The public is open to hearing the real story on pay equity, and conservatives need to be ready and willing to respond.
( CNN ) It was right after one of the longest lockouts in NBA history. Jeff Green, then playing for the Boston Celtics, was looking forward to getting back to the hardwood. That was until a routine physical stopped him in his tracks. The physical revealed he had an aortic aneurysm near the left valve of his heart. ``I was shocked,'' said the Memphis Grizzlies small forward. ``I had no symptoms of fatigue, shortness of breath.''. Green had to have open heart surgery. ``Leading up to it was nerve-racking,'' he said. ``I couldn't run. I couldn't touch a basketball. I couldn't get stressed out, it was tough.''. As Green learned how doctors would open up his chest to repair his heart, he considered the possibility he may never play basketball again. ``The first couple of weeks after I was told, I really focused in on my career and what was next,'' said the basketball player. ``I wanted to make sure if I wanted to come back, I was able to come back and play the same way I did before I left.''. If that opportunity wasn't there, Green wanted to have a backup plan. So, he headed back to his college roots at Georgetown University, finished his degree and became the first person in his family to graduate from college. Green's NBA basketball career wasn't over, but it was a slow progression back to the court. He missed the entire 2011-2012 season. ``I didn't even watch any basketball,'' he said. ``Six months after the surgery was the first time I set foot on a court.''. It was with the Hoyas where Green laid back down the foundation of his game, healing his body and regaining muscle. ``The timing was off,'' he said. ``I wasn't concerned about getting hit, the biggest thing was just being in shape and being able to move and being able to function on the floor.''. Green believes the surgery and hard road back to the NBA have given him a new perspective and more meaning in his life. ``I will never forget those days that I could walk 15 steps for five minutes,'' he said. ``Now I attack every game like this could be my last.''. ``I feel like the year I missed really added more years,'' he explained. ``It added more life into what I'm doing because I'm more grateful for it.''. Green's now using his story to raise awareness of hidden heart risk. He also spends time with children dealing with cardiac issues -- often telling them they are ``superheroes'' and encouraging them to ``show off your scar -- embrace it !''
Beijing ( CNN ) Amid tight security, a Chinese court has convicted veteran journalist Gao Yu for revealing state secrets and sentenced her to seven years in prison. Gao, 71, immediately said she would appeal, her lawyer Mo Shaoping told CNN Friday. After a closed trial last November, the No. 3 Intermediate People's Court in Beijing had twice delayed handing down a verdict, giving Gao's supporters some hope that the authorities' apparent hesitation may lead to her acquittal and release. ``Today's conviction is mainly based on a forced confession that she had since retracted,'' Mo said. ``This is a totally wrong judgment that doesn't respect the facts or the evidence.''. The government had accused Gao of disclosing a highly confidential ``Document No. 9'' issued by the ruling Communist Party leadership in 2013 to an overseas Chinese-language news organization, according to her lawyer. The document revealed the Party's ideological battle plan to counter advocates of constitutional democracy, banning public discussions on topics ranging from press freedom, civil rights to judicial independence. ``There is no defense against state secret charges in China, anything the Party or the government want to label as state secrets will be labeled and treated as such -- they can even do it retroactively,'' said Nicholas Bequelin, the Hong Kong-based East Asia director of Amnesty International. ``Her sentencing is in line with the very stern approach President Xi Jinping's team has taken on dissent, information control and challenges to the Party,'' he added. Beijing police detained Gao in late April of last year -- ahead of the sensitive 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square crackdown -- and state broadcaster CCTV soon aired her ``confession'' on national television. Expressing ``deep remorse'' in the video, Gao told interrogators she ``deeply regretted that her behavior had harmed national interests and violated the law.''. Mo, her lawyer, said the authorities had extracted the confession by threatening her son's safety and released the police video to CCTV without her knowledge. He added the alleged recipient of the leaked document even publicly denied that Gao was his source. An outspoken journalist and press freedom advocate, Gao began her career as a reporter for the state-run China News Service in 1979 and, in recent years, had been writing columns for overseas Chinese-language publications. She was arrested after the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989 and released more than a year later. She was imprisoned for another six years for leaking state secrets in 1993 -- though the government has never disclosed details of that case. Since Xi took power over two years ago, his government has jailed hundreds of activists across China despite rising international concern. ``We are in the midst of one of the most severe crackdowns on human rights activists,'' said Bequelin of Amnesty International. ``What the state used to tolerate, it doesn't tolerate anymore.''
Hong Kong ( CNN ) It's not just Asia. Around the world, we're becoming collectively more near-sighted. Near-sightedness, or myopia, means nearby objects appear clearly, but those farther away look blurry. The rates of myopia have doubled, even tripled, in most of East Asia over the last 40 years, researchers say. Several places like Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan have rates in the 80 %. In South Korea, myopia rates among 20-year-olds have leaped from 18 % in 1955 to over 96 % myopia in 2011. And it's a global issue -- rates of myopia are also rising in Western nations like Germany and the United States. ``It's about 40 % in the U.S., compared to about 25 % in the 1970s,'' said Dr. Michael Chiang, clinical spokesperson for the American Academy of Ophthalmology. But researchers say reducing risk of myopia is easy, free and readily-available : Get some sunlight. Sometimes, though, the easiest solutions are the hardest to implement. The epidemic of myopia amongst East Asians has triggered cultural questions about why so many young people develop vision problems. Many have long believed that reading, studying or staring at your phone caused short-sightedness. And there's the usual grumblings that young people spend way too much time glued to their screens. But researchers are focusing on a different cause. ``If children get outside enough, it doesn't matter how much they study they do. They don't become myopic,'' said Ian Morgan, researcher at Australian National University. Researchers say kids and teens need to get sunlight during the critical years of their development while their eyeballs are still growing. The mechanics of how sunlight protects their eyes are not clearly understood. One theory suggests that sunlight triggers the release of dopamine in the retina ; another speculates that blue light from the sun protects from the condition. The solution is simple. Have kids ``spend more time outside, have less demands ( from ) the schools and relax a bit,'' said Seang Mei Saw, professor of epidemiology at the National University of Singapore. But studying and play time are often at odds with each other. In Asian cultures where there is heavy emphasis on education and hyper-competitiveness, forcing playtime is easier said than done. ``The problem is teachers and parents are probably not going to let kids,'' said Dr. Nathan Congdon, professor at the Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center at the Sun Yat Sen University in China. ``There's a limit to how many hours kids can go outside.''. There have been some attempts to protect children's eyesight. In China, students have been mandated by its education ministry to perform daily eye exercises. Since 1963, rows of students sit at their desks and massage the pressure points around their eyes as a revolutionary-era anthem blares through the PA system. Despite these eye exercises, rates of myopia in urban China have soared to nearly 90 %, according to recent studies. ``China has among the highest rates of myopia and it's the only country in the world that does eye exercises, so it's probably not working all that well,'' said Congdon. Their effectiveness has been doubted by experts in China, but the exercises remain a part of the students' daily experience. Myopia may seem like a minor inconvenience. People have to deal with glasses, contact lenses and even laser eye surgery. But researchers say there are serious implications of such high rates of myopia among young people. In Singapore, 82 % of 20-year-olds are myopic. By the time these young adults hit their 60s, many of their vision problems are likely to get worse. ``They grow older and the epidemic is then in older adults,'' said Saw, head of the myopia unit at the Singapore Eye Research Institute. As people age, they can become at higher risk for severe eye disorders such as high myopia, glaucoma ( optic nerve damage ), cataracts ( clouding of the lens ) and retinal detachment. These conditions could lead to vision loss and blindness. To negotiate the expectations of parents and classes, researchers are experimenting ways to help students get increased exposure to sunlight. One of the studies underway is the ``bright light classroom'' where the school's walls and ceilings are made of see-through plastic that allows in light. Hundreds of students attend this unusual elementary school in Guangdong province. ``It's a potential way to increase the amount of light, in hopes of preventing myopia and allow kids to continue ( their ) education without inconvenience for them,'' Morgan said. Researchers want to measure the rates of myopia among students in these ``bright light classrooms'' compared with those in traditional classes. Building schools costs money -- especially experimental see-through schools. But researchers say there are low-cost solutions. In one Taiwanese study, teachers locked the students out of the classroom during recess and lunch time. In that 2013 study, students boosted their time in sunlight by 80 minutes during the school day. Fewer children in that school became nearsighted compared with those from another school that didn't follow such a policy. Researchers hope with greater understanding of this condition, far-sighted policies could save the next generation of children's eyesight.
( CNN ) Once Hillary Clinton's official announcement went online, social media responded in a big way, with terms like ``Hillary Clinton,'''' #Hillary2016,'' and yes, even'' #WhyImNotVotingforHillary'' trending. Certainly, you couldn't go far on Twitter ( even before Clinton tweeted her announcement ), without an opinion or thought on her new campaign ( there were over 3 million views of her announcment tweets in one hour, and 750,000 Facebook video views so far by Sunday evening ). Some tweeted their immediate support, with one word :.
( CNN ) A mammoth wave of snow darkens the sky over Everest Base Camp. Appearing like a white mushroom cloud roaring over the climbers, they scurry as their tents flap like feathers in the wind. Then panic hits. ``Whoa ! Whoa !'' Screams and expletives are heard. The few people in the video scatter and dive into a tent as the deluge of snow falls over them. Cursing and breathing heavily, they wait until the pounding is over. After a while, they scream to each other, ``Are you all right ?''. ``Are you OK ?''. The camera jostles back and forth as German climber Jost Kobusch heaves to catch his breath. Nearly 4,000 dead in Nepal earthquake. When they finally emerge from their avalanche ordeal, their faces are scarlet and their bodies crusted in snow. They trudge away, completely dazed and shocked. ``The ground was shaking from the earthquake and as soon as we saw people running, we were running ourselves to save our lives,'' Kobusch wrote in a post on his YouTube video. The harrowing two-minute clip shows the unimaginable scale of the avalanche that smashed into Everest Base Camp on Saturday. At least 17 people have been killed, with dozens injured and several missing -- likely buried beneath the snow and ice. The fates of the climbers and the local hires are one part of the enormous human toll in Nepal from the catastrophic quake that has so far claimed the lives of more than 4,300 people. At least 8,000 people were reported to have suffered injuries. Helicopters brought stranded climbers off the mountain Monday amid growing concern for the groups stuck around 20,000 feet ( 6,100 meters ) high in Camps 1 and 2. The climbers who were higher up Everest appeared to have avoided the deadly avalanche that struck Base Camp, but many -- estimated to be in the hundreds -- could not descend on their own. The climbers can't head down because the dangerous Khumbu Icefall has been ravaged by a series of aftershocks. The aftershocks sent snow and rocks thundering down the mountainside, complicating rescue efforts. Tshering Sherpa, who manages the icefall route, estimated that 100 to 200 people were stuck in the higher camps after the avalanche. ``Bottom line, the icefall has been deemed impassable at this point,'' said Alan Arnette, a climber and Everest blogger who was at Camp 2 when the avalanche struck. He said that climbers at Camp 2 and others higher up would descend to Camp 1 ( elevation 19,500 feet ) to await helicopters. Arnette was helicoptered down to Base Camp on Monday. Witnesses said three helicopters rescued climbers and Sherpas from Camp 1, taking two people down at a time. Carsten Pedersen, a Danish climber at Base Camp, said that he heard a steady stream of helicopters ferrying people from the mountains back to Base Camp throughout the morning. ``They land every 10 minutes here,'' Pedersen said. ``I estimate half the people have been rescued, and it's probably less than 200 people in the mountain this morning. I wouldn't be surprised if 100 people came down already.''. The window for helicopter rescue was expected to be between 9 a.m. and noon Monday. The helicopter rescues are heavily contingent on the weather. Jim Davidson, a climber on Everest, tweeted that the evacuations were going well. Down at Base Camp, Jamlins Sherpa said he counted about 22 body bags that were to be transported back to their families in Kathmandu. The death toll on Everest is still unclear. In an audio blog recorded from Camp 2, Arnette signed off with this message : ``It's important, it's not about mountaineering. This is about the earth and it's a horrible loss of life at Everest Base Camp and down at Kathmandu. ``It's a massive loss of life.''. A member of Arnette's team, Eve Girawong, a medic from New Jersey who worked on the mountain, was killed at Base Camp, according to her family and employer. Several Everest climbing teams have confirmed deaths. Five Nepali staff members were killed at Everest Base Camp and Camp 1, according to Adventure Consultants. It did not identify the staffers. Three Sherpas from the 360 Expeditions team died, the company posted on its Facebook page. Their names were also not revealed. The foreign casualties at Everest Base Camp include Dan Fredinburg, an American executive at Google who died after suffering a major head injury, and Tom Taplin, a documentary filmmaker from California. ``He was blown away by the blast rather than being buried in any rubble,'' Taplin's wife, Corey Freyer, told CNN affiliate KABC. The exact number of dead remains unclear. CNN's Jessica King, Jethro Mullen, journalists Wayne Chang and Naomi Ng contributed to this report.
( CNN ) WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has agreed to be interviewed by Swedish prosecutors in London, his lawyer in Sweden told CNN. Assange has been holed up in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London since June 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden, where prosecutors want to question him about 2010 allegations that he raped one woman and sexually molested another. According to the lawyer, Thomas Olsson, Swedish prosecutors will now have to reach out to British and Ecuadorian authorities to request permission to conduct the interview at the embassy. The prosecutors previously balked at coming to Britain to question Assange. However, some of the alleged crimes will be subject to a statute of limitations in August 2015, according to a statement from Marianne Ny, the director of public prosecutions. Ny explained the logic behind the Swedish authorities' change of approach in her statement. ``My view has always been that to perform an interview with him at the Ecuadorian embassy in London would lower the quality of the interview, and that he would need to be present in Sweden in any case should there be a trial in the future,'' Ny said. ``This assessment remains unchanged. Now that time is of the essence, I have viewed it therefore necessary to accept such deficiencies to the investigation and likewise take the risk that the interview does not move the case forward, particularly as there are no other measures on offer without Assange being present in Sweden.''. The Australian national has not been charged and denies the claims. Assange has said he fears Sweden would extradite him to the United States, where he could face the death penalty if he is charged and convicted of publishing government secrets through WikiLeaks. Ecuador granted Assange political asylum in 2012. CNN's Per Nyberg contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Two Transportation Security Administration screeners have been fired after conspiring to grope attractive men at Denver International Airport, Denver police said. Here's how police say the scheme worked : When the male TSA officer noticed a man he found attractive, he would alert a female TSA officer. The female officer would then tell the screening machine that a female passenger -- not a male -- was walking through. And that information would trigger a machine to register an anomaly in the groin area, prompting the male TSA officer to pat down the passenger, police said, citing a TSA investigation. But during the patdown, the male TSA officer used the palms of his hands to touch the passenger's front groin area and buttocks, which violates TSA policy. Former TSA agent sentenced for recording coworker. All this came to light after an anonymous tip from a TSA employee in November. The agency launched an investigation, and investigator Chris Higgins monitored the two TSA officers in question, Denver police said in a report. Higgins watched the plan being carried out on February 9. He interviewed the female TSA officer, who said she had done this with her colleague at least 10 other times, police said. Both of the TSA officers investigated have been fired, TSA special agent Charles Stone told police. Authorities did not release their names. Giant security gap at airports : Lack of criminal background checks. The TSA called the incident deplorable. ``These alleged acts are egregious and intolerable,'' the agency said in a written statement to CNN. ``All allegations of misconduct are thoroughly investigated by the agency. And when substantiated, employees are held accountable.''. But it's unlikely criminal charges will be filed because there is no identifiable victim. The TSA said it has been trying to identify the passenger in the February incident but to no avail. The TSA said no passengers have come forward with similar cases so far at the Denver airport. Hidden cameras reveal airport workers stealing from luggage. CNN's Tony Marco contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Just before writing this column, I reached into the depths of my wallet, and in between the pilot licenses, I slid out a postage stamp-size certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration. The certificate documents my successful completion of the DC Special Flight Rules Area, or SFRA, online course. The online course verifies that I am knowledgeable to fly a plane under visual flight rules into the most highly restricted U.S. airspace in the country. Although a ``no-fly zone'' over the White House has long existed, the SFRA airspace was developed to protect the Washington area further after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. The size of the SFRA airspace is designed to be large enough to give our defense forces enough time to determine if a threat exists from an aircraft entering it, an opportunity to identify the threat, and if necessary, to divert or eliminate it. An airspeed restriction begins at a 60-mile radius from the center of Reagan National Airport. At the 30-mile radius, all aircraft must file a flight plan that identifies itself to air traffic control via a specific four-digit transponder code ( a transponder is an electronic communication device that identifies a specific airplane on an air traffic controller's display screen to indicate authorization for the flight ). Aircraft must enter the SFRA through specific flight ``gates'' that are displayed on a standard aviation map. Aircraft on instrument flight rule flight plans, which include all airline operations, are not required to comply with SFRA restrictions. Air traffic control assumes the responsibility for the appropriate routing. As a matter of standard procedure, flights using an instrument flight rule flight plan have specific clearances with specific transponder codes, so the authorization for transit through the SFRA airspace is already built into the system. Why do I carry the certificate as an airline pilot ? I have had occasion to fly my own little airplane through the airspace on a visual flight rule flight plan. Pilot who landed gyrocopter blogged about why. Noncompliance with the airspace requirements, or worse, no communication at all, carries some serious federal penalties, which could include the suspension or revocation of your pilot license. Being at the wrong end of an F-16 missile is also a possible penalty. So how does a flying machine that looks like a sophisticated lawn chair with helicopter blades invade such highly restricted airspace, as happened Wednesday, when a postal carrier from Florida landed a single-person aircraft on Capitol grounds ?. Well, I'm making an assumption based on the video footage, but it appears that this aircraft is classified by the FAA as a gyrocopter. A gyrocopter can not quite launch straight up into the air in the manner of a typical helicopter ; it requires a short ground run for takeoff. And most gyrocopters are kit-built aircraft. It also appears that this particular gyrocopter may weigh just under 255 pounds, which classifies it as an ultralight aircraft in FAA parlance. Why is weight significant ? Below that weight, a license for the pilot or a license for the aircraft is not required. In addition, to remain in the classification, the maximum designed airspeed can't exceed 55 knots. Lawmaker looking into gyrocopter landing as pilot goes to court. A facility tracking the movement of this particular gyrocopter on radar would witness a speed probably attainable by the average Canadian goose. And the radar reflection on a piece of machinery of that diminutive size is most likely very limited. If it was actually tracked on a radar screen, the target may have appeared to be a flock of birds. How much damage could this aircraft have inflicted had it been intended for nefarious purposes ? Well, if it had been crashed into a building, I feel confident that the building would have been triumphant. If the intent had been to carry some sort of destructive device, the weapon would have had to be relatively small. The engine is not designed to carry more than one pilot. And lack of carry-on space is a definite issue. Not that a review of airspace security measures isn't in order, but I wouldn't be concerned that this event will become the next threat epidemic. As an airline pilot, I can say I am relatively confident that our nation's capital is secure from gyrocopter attacks orchestrated by misguided lunatics.
( CNN ) Iran will sign a final nuclear agreement only if economic sanctions against the nation are removed on the first day of the deal's implementation, President Hassan Rouhani said Thursday. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Islamic republic's supreme leader, meanwhile, told state-run media outlets he is neither in favor nor against the proposed deal because it isn't final, and he's not certain it will become binding because he has ``never been optimistic about negotiations with the U.S.''. Six world powers and Iran reached a preliminary deal last week that aims to limit Tehran's nuclear program in exchange for lifting economic sanctions. The United States, however, has stressed that if a final deal is reached with Iran, the removal of any sanctions will come in phases. But work on the agreement isn't finished. Negotiators from Iran and the United States, China, Germany, France, Britain and Russia have until June 30 to come up with a final deal. Khamenei said he supports the negotiators, but in several not-so-subtle shots at the United States, noted it is too soon to celebrate the proposed deal. ``Everything lies in the details,'' Khamenei said in a Thursday address, according to Press TV. ``The other side, which is known for backpedaling on its commitments, may want to corner our country when it comes to the specifics.''. What has been hashed out so far is no guarantee that the deal will become final, he said, and according to the Islamic Republic News Agency, the leader said he can't support or oppose the deal, especially when it's possible ``the other disloyal party intends to limit our country.''. Some have asked why Khamenei hasn't taken a position on the talks, and the reason is simple, he said, according to IRNA : ``There is no need to take a position. Officials say nothing has been done yet and that nothing is binding. I am neither in favor nor against it.''. Any final deal must ``ensure the interests and dignity of the ( Iranian ) nation,'' he said, adding he will support an agreement that ``will safeguard national interests and dignity.'' He said he'd rather see the agreement fail than make a deal that jeopardizes Iran's interests. ``What has happened so far will neither guarantee the agreement itself nor its content. It will not even guarantee completion of the negotiations. Therefore, it is meaningless to congratulate me or others about it,'' he said. Rouhani said his government would not surrender to bullying, sanctions and threats, according to Press TV. ``We will not sign any deal unless on the very first day of its implementation all economic sanctions against Iran are lifted all at once,'' Rouhani said at a ceremony to mark National Nuclear Technology Day in Tehran. President Barack Obama faces an uphill battle selling the deal to a skeptical Congress, which has threatened to impose new sanctions on Iran. U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, a nuclear physicist and negotiator with Iran, estimated it would take six months after a final deal is signed for the sanctions to be lifted. He told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that it was a ``ballpark'' figure contingent on a lot of work the Iranians will have to do beforehand. ``The core nuclear provisions must be satisfied.. the provisions that give us our confidence,'' Moniz said. He said it's in the ``hands of the Iranians'' to fulfill steps such as reducing stockpiles and lowering the number of operating centrifuges. ``It will depend on their ability to execute those moves,'' Moniz said. Asked if the Iranians were aware of that time frame during the negotiations -- before Rouhani called for the immediate lifting of sanctions -- Moniz said, ``Oh, yes, for sure.''. The No. 3 House Republican leader said a bill to ease any sanctions does not stand much of a chance in the U.S. House of Representatives or Senate. ``The sanctions that were put in place -- again, very bipartisan sanctions passed by Congress years ago that were effective -- the only way to get rid of them completely would be for Congress to vote to ease those sanctions,'' Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana said in a radio interview with WWL in New Orleans on Wednesday. ``We haven't had that vote. I don't see that passing out of the House. I don't even think it would pass out of the Senate right now.''. Diplomats announced last week that they'd come up with the framework for an agreement after a marathon stretch of late-night negotiations in Lausanne, Switzerland. The framework includes the easing of U.S. and U.N. sanctions on Iran if it takes certain steps to curb its nuclear program. Iran would reduce its stockpile of low-enriched uranium by 98 % for 15 years and significantly scale back its number of installed centrifuges, according to the plan. In exchange, the United States and the European Union would lift sanctions that have crippled the country's economy. ``It is a good deal, a deal that meets our core objectives,'' Obama said after it was announced April 2. ``This framework would cut off every pathway that Iran could take to develop a nuclear weapon.''. It would include strict verification measures to make sure Iran complies, he said. The United States and Iran have a long history of strained relations, which made the negotiations more significant. Just two years ago, the two countries had not talked with each other officially in nearly four decades. CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Christine Theodorou and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Over the last few years, we've been close to eradicating worldwide polio without full success. However, a new medical technology, an easily applied microneedle patch, could be the key to that goal. The biggest challenge standing in the way of eradicating polio has involved the operational logistics of getting the vaccine to people who need it, especially in difficult areas plagued by violence or poverty. The microneedle patch, which resembles a small, round adhesive bandage, could bring polio vaccines to the doorsteps of the people that need it. By applying it to the skin and pushing down, the vaccine is delivered in a matter of minutes. Rather than requiring highly trained medics, minimally trained personnel could go from door to door, quickly administering the vaccine. It's been 60 years since a mass inoculation of Jonas Salk's vaccine began with school children in April, 1955 that caused polio cases in the United States to drop by almost 90 % over the course of two years. The vaccine was eagerly awaited because, according to the CDC, about 35,000 people annually became disabled because of polio in the U.S. in the 1940s and'50s. In 1938, Roosevelt founded the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, an organization known today as the March of Dimes Foundation, to fight polio. The organization funded the two vaccines -- one created by Salk and another by Albert Sabin -- that would lead to the protection of most of the world against polio. Salk's vaccine, developed in the 1950s, involved injecting a virus that was ``killed,'' while Sabin's vaccine -- which he worked on in the 1960s and which was administered orally -- contained a weakened version of polio. The Sabin vaccine actually helped boost immunity in communities beyond the individual because people shed the weakened virus in their feces. It came to replace the Salk vaccine in many places between 1963 and 1999, according to the Smithsonian. But the injected ``killed'' virus version is what's given in the United States today because of the rare instances of people developing polio from the oral vaccine. Most people with polio have no symptoms ; minor symptoms such as limb pain, fatigue and nausea affect about 4 % to 8 % of patients, according to the CDC. Fewer than 1 % of cases lead to patients becoming permanently paralyzed, usually in the legs. Between 5 % and 10 % of paralyzed patients die when their respiratory muscles become paralyzed, too. Human beings have been living with polio for thousands of years, Dr. Stephen Cochi, a polio specialist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said. There's evidence from ancient Egypt that paralytic polio existed there and even infected royalty. But it wasn't described clinically until 1789. The United States saw its first polio outbreak in 1894 in Vermont, with 132 cases, according to the Smithsonian. As the population became more urbanized in the early 20th century, more outbreaks occurred. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt contracted the disease at age 39 in 1921. Although no cure was developed, a device called an iron lung was invented to help people with the disease breathe. The patient would lie on a bed inside a cylindrical tank, and the machine helped some people become able to breathe again on their own. This device cost about $ 1,500 in the 1930s -- about what a home would cost then, according to the Smithsonian. That is, until the vaccine came on the scene. Polio was declared eradicated in the United States in 1979. But the vaccination effort doesn't stop. ``In the U.S., where there's no problem anymore, we still want to have the population protected,'' said Michael Katz, senior advisor and interim medical director of the March of Dimes. Children should receive four doses of inactivated polio vaccine, delivered as an injection, at ages 2 months, 4 months, 6 to 18 months, and 4 to 6 years, according to the CDC. Most American adults were vaccinated as children and don't need another dose. But people may need additional protection if they are traveling to high-risk countries, handle poliovirus specimens in a laboratory or have close contact with a person who has polio. Polio primarily spreads from person to person -- through coughing and sneezing -- or through fecal contamination. The particles are large enough that the risk of contracting polio in the air is momentary, and on a surface like a desk or a chair, it can last an hour or two. But in sewage, it can last for weeks or even months. Polio is the next likely candidate for disease eradication, Cochi said. The only infectious disease that humans have eradicated is smallpox. Like polio, it was a viral disease spread from person to person and would infect everyone in the absence of vaccination. And there's no non-human animal in nature that hosts these viruses, making it easier to eradicate than a disease that animals carry, too ( although at least 100,000 monkeys were killed in the development of polio vaccines in the mid-20th century, according to the Smithsonian ). A big difference, though, is that smallpox has obvious characteristic symptoms : fever and rash. Most people with polio have no symptoms at all, or very mild symptoms. On average, one out of 200 patients experiences paralysis. For polio, tremendous progress is being made, with 95 % of children being reached for the most part, Oliver Rosenbauer, spokesman for polio efforts at the WHO, said. But there are still districts where only 75 % to 80 % of children are covered, which allows the virus to continue circulating in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nigeria. ``The virus keeps getting increasingly restricted,'' Rosenbauer said. ``We're not there, but I think the trend is good.''. Perhaps microneedles could be the key to finally eradicate worldwide polio.
( CNN ) In the hours after the funeral of Freddie Gray, a community center and apartment complex that local leaders expected to serve as a catalyst for the rebuilding of a long blighted East Baltimore neighborhood went up in flames. The $ 16 million Mary Harvin Transformation Center was being built in a part of town where half the properties are vacant buildings or barren lots, where unemployment rates reach 25 % and poverty and despair is rampant. ``Disheartened and bewildered'' was how the Rev. Donte Hickman, pastor of East Baltimore's Southern Baptist Church, described feeling Tuesday as he surveyed the still-smoldering ruins of the centerpiece of a community rebuilding effort led by his church and a coalition of other congregations. ``I see the hopelessness.. and the emotions of the people but I still see hope in God that we can rise from the ashes,'' he said. ``We can rebuild. This can not be the legacy of Baltimore.''. The project was to include about 60 senior citizen apartments and a community center. In the works for eight years, the center was to provide behavioral health counseling, support services for people and families with HIV and AIDS, employment training, home and credit counseling, and ex-offender re-entry services, according to documents filed with the state of Maryland. The cause of the blaze was still under investigation. The brick building burned to the ground in the riots that followed Monday's funeral for Gray, who died mysteriously on April 19, a week after Baltimore police arrested him. Anger over Gray's death may have spurred Monday's violence -- including buildings and cars set ablaze by rioters, looting and clashes with the police -- but members of Baltimore's clergy said it was also spurred by lasting issues with young African-Americans in the city. ``We've been trying to make a major difference, trying to transform the community only to discover that something as tragic as this would take place,'' said the Rev. Walden Wilson II, pastor of Israel Baptist Church -- part of the East Baltimore Minister's Community Development Partnership. ``We saw it coming,'' he added. ``Baltimore is a tinderbox. We have a lot of anger as a result of unemployment. We have a high rate of incarceration.''. High concentrations of poverty, underfunded and failing schools, neglected public housing projects and a lack of employment opportunities have been among the social issues long simmering below East Baltimore's crumbling row houses, according to the local church leaders. ``I think the reason that they burned it is exactly the reason why we needed it,'' Hickman said of the community center. ``We were seeking to restore people while we rebuilt properties. We wanted to effect change in the human community as well as rebuild properties with affordable housing.''. The Rev. Reginald Thomas, pastor of Greater Gethsemane Missionary Baptist Church and member of the coalition, said parts of Baltimore have not recovered from the 1968 riots that followed the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Those riots sped up the flight of city residents to the suburbs. Unemployment soared with the disappearance of blue-collar jobs. The drug scourge in the 1980s tore the community apart further. ``The message was that our young people are not valued,'' Thomas said. Recreation centers closed. New prisons were built, Thomas said. Hundreds of millions of dollars were poured into the revitalization of the historic Inner Harbor, a renaissance that eluded communities such as East Baltimore. ``When you look at that kind of despair, when you look at people who notice beauty in a city that they can not even access, it creates such an undercurrent of anger, frustration and hopelessness, that's not going to be fixed quickly,'' Thomas said. Thomas recalled driving along downtown's Pratt Street on Tuesday, near the Inner Harbor, the streets teeming with National Guardsmen and State Police officers. ``When I left downtown and came into East Baltimore, I see no National Guard, no troopers,'' he said. ``It sends a message that it's a priority to protect the areas of the city where a lot of the money has been poured, where the wealth is. What's missed is, it's really not smart or wise in the long term to try to isolate certain problems in certain neighborhoods. What may start off as one neighborhood's problems soon become the city's problem.''. Hickman said the senior housing complex and community center was to open in November or December. The partner churches are expected to complete other projects offering affordable housing and mixed-use developments in East Baltimore. The center is being built by The Woda Group, a low-income housing developer. Kevin Bell, senior vice president of The Woda Group, said : ``We are fully committed to rebuilding.''. On Tuesday, Michael Bluitt, a representative of HCO Inc., one of the largest African-American church architecture firms in the nation, offered a free conceptual rendering and design consultation for the rebuilding, CNN affiliate ABC2News reported. Hickman, Thomas and other clergy members on Monday night met with gang members in an attempt to stem the street violence. Thomas said it was the first time such a gathering took place. Hickman called it a breakthrough. ``Young people just needed somebody to sit and talk to them and hear them cry,'' Hickman said, looking out over the ruins of the community project. ``This is reactionary. This is emotional. This is frustration. This is, I don't know what else to do. If we can rebuild Iraq, we can rebuild East Baltimore.''. CNN's Miguel Marquez and Brooke Baldwin contributed to this report.
( CNN ) If newly revised NYPD training materials are approved by a federal judge, new cadets could be taking courses reminding them ``not to engage in racial profiling.''. The proposed training materials, overseen by appointed federal monitor Peter Zimroth, were submitted to Manhattan Federal Court judge Analisa Torres on Monday for approval. They include directives to ``not tell or tolerate ethnic, racial or sexist jokes'' and to ``not imitate the speech patterns'' of others. ``Do not engage in racial profiling,'' the training materials read. ``It is against the law. It violates fundamental democratic precepts and freedoms. It violates this Department's policies. It is offensive. It violates your responsibility to treat people equally. It diverts us from catching real criminals. It alienates us from people who need us, and hurts our ability to do our job. You can probably think of other reasons not to do it, but the point is that you will not do it.''. The training notes also instruct new cadets ``not to use terms or words that devalue groups of people or stereotype them'' and ``not to imitate speech patterns of other racial, ethnic and class groups when communicating cross culturally'' because ``they appear disingenuous, artificial, and possibly racist.''. The revised training notes, which include 140 pages of instruction and PowerPoint slides, are a result of a 2013 federal ruling declaring the New York Police Department's ``Stop, Question and Frisk'' practice unconstitutional. The NYPD has said the policy -- in which police stop, question and frisk people they consider suspicious -- was used to deter crime. The practice had been widely criticized. Police Department figures showed that nearly nine out of 10 people ``stopped and frisked'' in 2011 were African-American or Hispanic, though New York Mayor Bill de Blasio has said 90 % of those stopped were innocent. ``The current training materials had not undergone a comprehensive review for some time.. -LSB- and -RSB- did not address some important subjects or account for some changes in NYPD policies and law,'' Zimroth wrote in a cover letter to Torres. ``All parties agreed it was essential that the materials be rewritten for the current class to reflect current law and policy.''. The NYPD collaborated with Zimroth's team in crafting the final training materials. They will now ``review their implementation in terms of our current and ongoing practices,'' said an NYPD spokesperson in an email to CNN. The Patrolmen's Benevolent Association declined to comment. The materials also provide historical legal information on proper ``stops'' and offers detailed procedures for patrolling buildings for criminal activity. They also give instructions on how an officer should lawfully conduct him or herself when engaging with the public. ``Remember that a courteous, professional and respectful police officer who illustrates the opposite of bias and discrimination helps create a partnership with the community and builds rapport with the people in it. ``The result is that the citizens become our allies and, in turn, policing becomes safer and easier. This enhances our effectiveness and increases our pride and pleasure in what we do,'' the notes read. If approved, the new training materials will be integrated into the class curriculum for the current class of cadets. They are expected to graduate in June.
( CNN ) ``My son served in the army for four years. In Iraq. He served because we love our country. As we should. Now look at us ?''. Muna Mansour is gesturing around her at the slatted cargo hold she and her family -- all nine of them -- are trying to get comfortable in. They're squeezed in with two other families. On the ground by my feet, Muna's middle grandchild is sleeping, curled up beside an oil drum. ``There's nowhere to sleep, there's no food -- you can see how people are just thrown around all over the place,'' she said. Muna is from Buffalo in upstate New York. Her family is among the dozens of Americans caught in the crossfire of warring parties in Yemen. And although many other countries evacuated their citizens, India most notably ferrying out around 5,000, the United States has said it is too dangerous for them to directly evacuate American nationals. For more than three weeks, neighboring Saudi Arabia has been conducting airstrikes in Yemen. They want to drive out the Shiite Houthi rebels, whose opposition to the government grew from protests to a takeover of government buildings and some territory. At one time, the Houthis held Yemen's President under house arrest, before he escaped and fled. The bombings have decimated some cities, including Aden, and foreigners find themselves trapped. ``I was there when the Indians picked up 200 of their people from the port. It was embarrassing. We were just sitting there waiting for someone to come and say `OK where are the Americans, let's pick them up,''' she said. ``I called the Riyadh embassy,'' she adds, referring to the U.S. Embassy in neighboring Saudi Arabia. ``I told them there were about 75 families here waiting at the port. My family has been waiting there for two weeks. We ran out of money, we ran out of food.''. The State Department said it is too risky to conduct an evacuation of citizens from the area. ``We have to make a decision based on the security situation and what is feasible to do,'' State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said earlier this month. ``And given the situation in Yemen is quite dangerous and unpredictable, doing something like sending in military assets even for an evacuation could put U.S. citizen lives at greater risk.''. A group of U.S. organizations, including the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination League, have filed a lawsuit against the State Department and Defense Department over the government's stance on evacuations. It was purely coincidence that led to Muna being on board this ship, a wooden vessel chartered by CNN to reach the port city of Aden, in Yemen. Muna was visiting her sick father in Aden when fighting broke out around her. With the Houthi forces to the north and the waters of the Gulf of Aden to the south, the city is essentially besieged. It took us over 30 hours of travel -- and a lull in the fighting -- for us to be able to dock at one of Aden's smaller ports. She has a ``nice, normal life'' in New York and said she couldn't wait to get back. Our ship was the first the port had seen in over a week. We agreed to take back 60 refugees -- including 15 Americans -- who had gathered at the port's gate when news of our arrival spread. But of course that's nowhere near enough. So many more are desperate to leave. I asked Muna what life in Aden was like. ``My daughter-in-law would crouch down and hide in the kitchen,'' she recalls. ``It was just bombs all the time. Gunshots. People running down the street.''. She trails off into silence. For everyone here with us on the boat, there are families left behind. Mothers and fathers. Daughters and sons. The first night on board our boat had an almost festive air. Our new passengers were laughing and sharing cigarettes, euphoric at their escape. One woman though was sitting alone on deck and I realized she was crying. She told me her 15-year-old son was trapped on the other side of one of the many front lines that are now etched into the city's streets. They'd waited for 10 days, but neither her son nor her parents could cross over to the port, in Al Tawahi district. Too scared to risk missing the boat and endangering the lives of their other three children, her husband had convinced her to board. When they called to tell her son he also had news for them : He'd joined the fight against the Houthi forces. For Muna, her ordeal ended at Djibouti Port where Christina Higgins, the U.S. Deputy Chief of Mission, was among the embassy staff waiting to meet them. I asked Higgins about the sense of abandonment Muna and many of the other Americans trapped in Yemen said they felt. ``We have one of the branches of al Qaeda that's especially active. There's the Houthis -- neither of these two groups friendly to U.S. citizens. We've had to weigh very, very carefully what is the safest way, the best way for us to help them.''. Higgins said ultimately each U.S. citizen is going to have to judge what is best for themselves and their families. ``For many U.S. citizens, that's going to mean sheltering in place. For other U.S. citizens, we're actively working at getting information to them on different avenues for travel out of Yemen.''. Watching them hand out cookies, water and phones to reassure those waiting at home, it's clear the staff here are overjoyed to have some of their citizens safe and sound. There are many more though of course who are still in danger. There are no definitive records, but the 15 Americans on board our ship said they had counted 75 more families waiting in Aden port who couldn't afford an ``exit/transport'' fee being charged to depart Aden. In this time of crisis, the $ 300-a-person fee wasn't an official tax, but something that local fishermen were charging to ferry passengers to the boat to board. That's 75 more families waiting for another happy coincidence to dock at Aden's deserted ports.
( CNN ) Supported by American intelligence and supplied with advanced U.S.-made weaponry, Saudi jets began airstrikes in Yemen late last month in the name of what the kingdom's Washington ambassador described as ``restoring the legitimate government'' and protecting a ``Yemeni constitution and elections.''. The need to protect constitutions and elections is a rather strange message from the representative of an absolute monarchy. Indeed, Saudi motives in Yemen likely have nothing to do with protecting the country's ``legitimate government,'' its constitution or its electoral process. So what is really going on ?. The kingdom's real motives seem clear if one looks at Saudi monarchy's history of not allowing regional competition of any kind, while consistently combating efforts to build democratic governments that empower the people. This approach was evident in 2013, when Saudi Arabia voiced its support for the military coup that overthrew the democratically elected government of Mohamed Morsy in Egypt, which was in keeping with counterrevolutionary Saudi policies that aimed to contain or reverse the results of the Arab Spring. The Saudi goal is simple : Prevent the rise of any popularly supported government in the region that seeks self-determination. And the excuse of ``resisting Iran's influence,'' meanwhile, appears to be nothing but sectarian bluster. For example, in 2009, the Houthis ( more accurately described as the Ansarullah ) were not yet receiving help from Iran, yet for weeks the kingdom pummeled them with airstrikes, following Saudi claims of a Houthi incursion. True, the Ansarullah movement now benefits from Iranian support. But it is far from the only group getting help from outside sources in the region. With all this in mind, the American decision to stand behind the Saudi attack on Yemen can best be described as misguided. Although the Houthi movement's rhetoric is unquestionably anti-American, it has not targeted any American interests. In fact, when the U.S. Embassy packed up in Sanaa in January, leaving a fleet of over 20 armored SUVs behind at the airport, the Houthis reportedly said they would round up the cars and deliver them to a U.N. representative in Yemen. And while the Houthis did not welcome the American presence in Yemen, they did not interfere with U.S. operations against al Qaeda in the country. But one of the biggest miscalculations has been that U.S. policy has adopted the Saudi-Gulf narrative on Yemen, effectively placing Saudi ambitions to control Yemen above previous American priorities like destroying the safe haven for al Qaeda there. Indeed, the Obama administration appears to have abandoned Yemen to Saudi machinations. This reality was underscored when U.S State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki effectively endorsed Saudi bombing, saying the ``Saudis have legitimate concerns about the possible impact of current events in Yemen on their security.'' The implication here seems to be that any country ``concerned'' about its neighbors can go ahead and bomb them, a view that risks creating a dangerous precedent. Back in September, White House spokesman Josh Earnest described Yemen as a success story in the war on terrorism, explaining that the U.S. priority in Yemen was not to establish a ``Jeffersonian democracy'' but to prevent Yemen from becoming a safe-haven for al Qaeda and affiliates. Yet if that policy goal remains in place, then it must be acknowledged that the Saudi war on Yemen will not only undermine the U.S. aim of preventing al Qaeda from making Yemen a safe haven, but also undermine broader U.S. efforts in Yemen. The reality is that Saudi and Gulf Co-operation Council jets are effectively acting as al Qaeda's air force by bombing the same group that had managed to uproot al Qaeda from several Yemeni regions. Interestingly, while Saudi Arabia deployed about 100 aircraft against the Houthis on the second day of its offensive, it reportedly deployed a mere four fighter jets in the early U.S.-led campaign against ISIS last year. Regardless, the results of the Saudi campaign are unlikely to be positive -- one only need look at the way a much smaller Houthi force than today was able to outfox the Saudi military back in 2009. Back then, Houthi forces consisted of only a few hundred fighters, but they shocked the Saudi army, reportedly capturing Saudi equipment and forcing the evacuation of almost 250 Saudi villages as it seized territory along the border. Today, that ragtag group of Houthi rebels has been replaced by a much larger group called Ansarullah, modeled after Lebanon's Hezbollah. Back in 2009, the rebels were limited to parts of the Saada region and were self-funded, although Yemen claimed they had minor assistance from the late Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi. Yet despite this, they were still able to withstand some 90 days of Saudi bombardment. Today, the Ansarullah group is receiving political, financial and military support from Iran. Already, the Saudi government was forced to cancel flights to southern airports, and it has also reportedly suspended classes in schools in the border regions. The situation is only likely to deteriorate as the fighting continues. What should be done now ?. Saudi interests in Yemen should not replace those of the United States. With this in mind, the Obama administration should work to find an immediate political solution to the conflict, one that can be embraced by the various Yemeni factions. A change in approach is essential not only because the Saudi-led war on Yemen is wrong and destined to fail, but because it might end up further opening the Yemeni door to Iran. But perhaps most importantly, by supporting a self-interested Saudi campaign, the U.S. may actually empower an al Qaeda with the potential still to do great harm to the United States.
Shanghai, China ( CNN ) When China's biggest auto show opens in Shanghai this week, the only models on display will be the ones with four wheels. Gone, show organizers hope, will be the scantily-clad ``car babes'' that in previous years have posed provocatively on car hoods and sashayed through the aisles to draw crowds to the 9-day event. The focus, instead, will be the latest offerings from an array of global car manufacturers, which -- models or not -- are pulling out all the stops to compete for Chinese customers in what since 2009 has been the world's largest car market. ``It's a major industry event for us,'' said Andrew Boyle, global product communications manager at Rolls Royce. It sells several hundred of its super-luxury vehicles in China each year, and in Shanghai this week will launch its latest model, the Phantom Limelight. Vehicle sales in China totaled 23.5 million units last year, almost a third more than in the United States. However, the show comes at a turning point for China's auto market, which is facing a second year of slower growth in 2015 after a decade-long sales and production frenzy. Intense competition for China's drivers means that car manufacturers are increasingly developing vehicles that cater to Chinese preferences. Nissan will use Auto Shanghai 2015 to unveil the Lannia mid-size sedan, which it says has been specially created for ``the rising young Chinese generation.''. The country's gearheads have embraced the SUV or sport utility vehicle, sales of which jumped a third last year, and many will feature in the displays planned by dozens of European, Japanese U.S., South Korea and Chinese automakers. This year MG, once known for its sleek sports cars and now owned by Shanghai Automotive Industries Corp, enters the fray with its first SUV, the GS, while Ford will give two new luxury SUVs their China market debut -- the Lincoln MKX and Lincoln Navigator, the latter favored by hip hop stars. ``The SUV is popular as a first car,'' said Raymond Tsang, a Shanghai-based partner at consultancy Bain & Company. ``If you only have one, you want one that you can commute in and take on a road trip.''. Foreign brands have dominated sales in the past two years, but as they improve product quality and design, local rivals like Geely, which also owns Sweden's Volvo, and Great Wall Motor are clawing back market share, especially when it comes to SUVs. Geely, which already exports to Russia, the Middle East and Africa, is also stepping up its efforts to crack more developed markets. It is preparing to export the Volvo S60 Inscription to the United States from a factory in the southwestern city of Chengdu. It would be the first car made in China to hit U.S showrooms and may pave the way for Chinese brands to shake up the U.S. market like Japanese and Korean car manufacturers did decades earlier. With car ownership still at much lower levels than the U.S. and Europe, China is likely to remain the industry's most important market for decades. However, the breakneck growth may be a thing of the past. In 2014, growth in sales halved to 7 % and according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, the slowdown continued in the first three months of this year when sales rose just 3.9 %. It comes as the wider economy slows and a prolonged campaign against corruption has hit sales of luxury vehicles, especially brands like Audi that have been the ride of choice for Chinese officials. On top of that, the hassles of car ownership are deterring some potential buyers, as is an awareness of the environmental costs. Congested and chaotic roads, restrictions on the number of new vehicle license plates and a shortage of residential parking space may trigger a backlash against car ownership, according to a recent report from Bain & Company. ``The car was seen as a status symbol,'' says Pierre-Henri Boutot, a partner at Bain and co-author of the report. ``But now in larger cities they see the hassle and some of these people are thinking of giving up their car.''. Just maybe, China will need those car babes to boost sales after all.
( CNN ) Oprah's in there. So's Bill Murray, George Clooney, Scarlett Johansson, Jerry Seinfeld, Howard Stern, Tina Fey, Michael Keaton and Ray Romano. On Tuesday, ``The Late Show with David Letterman'' announced some of the guests for the talk show host's final month of broadcasts. The last ``Late Show'' will air Wednesday, May 20. Among the notables are Oprah Winfrey, with whom Letterman has had an on-and-off faux feud for years ; Clooney, who's starring in ``Tomorrowland,'' which will be released on May 22 ; and Stern, who's always an engaging Letterman guest. But longtime fans may be even more intrigued by the appearances of Keaton, an old acquaintance who once shared a stage with Letterman as players on Mary Tyler Moore's short-lived 1978 variety show, and Murray, who was the very first guest on Letterman's old NBC show, ``Late Night with David Letterman.''. Steve Martin, who's taken part in some of the ``Late Show's'' best bits, will also be dropping by. Letterman has been a late-night host for 33 years, close to 22 of them on CBS' ``Late Show.''. Stephen Colbert will take over the ``Late Show'' on September 8.
Bangkok ( CNN ) Thailand has lifted martial law, replacing it with it a controversial new security order granting sweeping powers to the ruling military junta. Critics have expressed alarm at the move, with Human Rights Watch's Asia director Brad Adams saying it marked the country's ``deepening descent into dictatorship.''. Martial law was lifted Wednesday when the Thai King Bhumibol Adulyadej approved a request from Prime Minister General Prayuth Chan-ocha to proceed. Prayuth -- head of the National Council for Peace and Order ( NCPO ) junta -- immediately invoked Article 44 of the country's interim constitution ``to curb acts deemed harmful to national peace and stability.''. Article 44 states, in wide-ranging terms, that when the head of the junta believes it is necessary in the name of public harmony or to prevent the undermining of national security, then he has the power to act as deemed necessary. According to a statement issued by the NCPO, the new order grants military personnel powers to issue summons and arrest those who commit crimes against the royal family or against national stability, who commit crimes involving war weaponry, or who violate the orders of the NCPO. Designated military personnel were granted powers to seize assets, to block media from reporting or publishing, and to detain suspects up to seven days, the statement said. Unauthorized political gatherings of more than five people were banned, while those who defied NCPO orders could be imprisoned for up to a year, it said. Those who were detained could not leave the country without the approval of the head of the NCPO. Human Rights Watch said in a statement that the new security order would allow Prayuth ``to issue orders without administrative, legislative, or judicial oversight or accountability.''. ``Thailand's friends abroad should not be fooled by this obvious sleight of hand by the junta leader to replace martial law with a constitutional provision that effectively provides unlimited and unaccountable powers,'' Adams said in a statement. Sunai Phasuk, Human Rights Watch's senior researcher on Thailand, told CNN the move would see Prayuth ``become a strongman with ultimate power in his hands to wield as he wishes.''. ``This is a dangerous indication that the junta is not going to keep its promise to restore democracy and respect for human rights in Thailand,'' he said. Rupert Abbott, deputy director for Asia Pacific at Amnesty International, called in a statement for the NCPO to ``reinstate the rule of law and constitutional protections for human rights which the 2014 coup steamrolled over.''. Meanwhile, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein expressed alarm at the news. ``Normally I would warmly welcome the lifting of martial law -- and indeed strongly advocated for it to be lifted in Thailand,'' the High Commissioner said. ``But I am alarmed at the decision to replace martial law with something even more draconian, which bestows unlimited powers on the current Prime Minister without any judicial oversight at all. This clearly leaves the door wide open to serious violations of fundamental human rights.''. Martial law was imposed shortly before Thailand's military seized power last May, ousting the democratically-elected government of Yingluck Shinawatra after months of sometimes violent street protests. Since then, the NCPO has curbed civil liberties, muzzled the media and rounded up opponents. Amnesty International says that since May, hundreds of people have been arbitrarily held and dozens brought before military courts for engaging in peaceful political gatherings or expression. Thai political scholar and coup opponent Pavin Chachavalpongpun told CNN that the move from martial law to the new security order amounted to ``pouring the same wine into a new bottle.''. ``The junta is trying to reinvent itself, but the substance is still there,'' he said. ``In a word : it's absurd. Everyone knows in Thailand they had to abolish the martial law because of international pressure. ``But Article 44 is a lot worse than the martial law because it gives total power to the NCPO.''. Thailand's military rulers have insisted that such restrictive measures are needed to maintain stability, following a decade of political conflict which has pitted a royalist, middle-class Bangkok elite against Shinawatra's supporters, mostly drawn from the urban working class or the rural north. But Pavin did not believe there was a sufficient threat to national security to justify the new order. ``The notion of national security has been exploited over and over,'' he said. A spokesperson for the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok said it was important that Thai citizens were allowed ``to freely exercise their fundamental rights, including the rights of freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.''
Fall River, Massachusetts ( CNN ) Former New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandez looked on impassively Wednesday as he was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole, a new low for a young man who once enjoyed a $ 40 million pro-football contract and now stands convicted in the 2013 murder of onetime friend Odin Lloyd. Hernandez, 25, appeared to shake his head ``no'' earlier as jurors in the Massachusetts trial found him guilty of first-degree murder. He was also found guilty of unlawful possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition. ``They got it wrong,'' Hernandez said as he was being transported from the courthouse to a state prison, according to a law enforcement source close to the case. ``I didn't do it.''. At trial, the defense team described Lloyd, a former semi-pro football player, as Hernandez's ``bluntmaster'' -- his purveyor of marijuana -- and his future brother-in-law. But in victim impact statements, Lloyd's relatives portrayed him as a loving son and protective brother, as a man who rode his bike 10 miles to work and wore the same flip-flops for 12 years. ``Odin was my only son,'' his mother, Ursula Ward, told the court, without looking at Hernandez. ``Odin was the man of the house. Odin was his sisters' keeper. After my daughter Olivia had her daughter, Odin became her keeper, too.''. ``I thank God every second for every day I spent with my son. The day I laid my son Odin to rest, I think my heart stopped beating for a moment. I felt like I wanted to go in that hole with my son Odin.''. Lloyd was ``the backbone of the family,'' Ward said. She expressed regret she'd never see him have a child and that she'd never dance at his wedding. But she found forgiveness in her heart : ``I forgive the hands of the people that had a hand in my son's murder, either before or after. And I pray and hope that someday, everyone up there will forgive them also.''. Outside court, Bristol County District Attorney Thomas Quinn said of her ability to forgive : ``I think it's a tremendous compliment to her.''. ``As difficult as it is for people in the end, forgiveness is what it's about, if people can bring themselves to that point, he said. What's next for Aaron Hernandez ?. Of the defendant, Quinn said : ``Aaron Hernandez may have been a well-known New England Patriots football player. However, in the end, the jury found that he was just a man who committed a brutal murder. ``The fact that he was a professional athlete meant nothing in the end. He is a citizen who was held accountable by the jury for his depraved conduct.''. Asked whether Hernandez ``gets it'' after his murder conviction, Quinn said : ``I don't know. I think when you're taken away and they say, `life in prison without parole'.. there's got to be some response. But I don't know if he got it.''. Assistant District Attorney William McCauley told the court moments before that sentence was imposed that Hernandez ``committed an extremely cruel and atrocious killing.. It was brutal. It was senseless.''. Judge Susan Garsh sentenced Hernandez ``to a term of your natural life without the possibility of parole'' for the first-degree murder conviction. Garsh also sentenced him to between half a year and three years for unlawful possession of a firearm and one year, which he has already served, for unlawful possession of ammunition. As the verdict was read, the former standout tight end appeared upset but calm. He pursed his lips and took a deep breath as his lawyer James Sultan put his arm around him. He looked over to see his mother, Terri, and fiancée, Shayanna Jenkins, weeping. Shayanna is the sister of the victim's former girlfriend, Shaneah Jenkins. Hernandez mouthed to them, ``It's OK.''. None of the jurors looked at Hernandez as the verdict was read. As each guilty verdict was read, Lloyd's mother, Ursula, rocked back and forth. After the verdict, Lloyd's relatives thanked and embraced members of the prosecution team. Speaking to reporters later, some members of the jury of seven women and five men admitted to not knowing who Patriots owner Robert Kraft was when he took the stand. Hernandez's downward spiral. But they agreed that his testimony was crucial. Kraft testified that Hernandez proclaimed his innocence to him and told the team owner that ``he hoped that the time of the murder.. came out because I believe he said he was in a club.''. ``To this day -- we just went through a three-month trial, and this is now two years later -- we still don't know the exact time of Odin's murder,'' one of the jurors said. ``So I don't know how Aaron would have had that information two years ago.''. The jurors said they learned about other pending cases against Hernandez, including a pair of murder counts, after rendering their verdict. Asked how that made them feel, one juror said, ``That we did the right thing.''. They deliberated for more than 35 hours over parts of seven days. Hernandez was taken to a maximum security reception center for new inmates, Massachusetts Correctional Institution-Cedar Junction, which is less than four miles from Gillette Stadium, home of the Patriots. As he was being moved, Hernandez displayed the same kind of swagger with which he strolled into court each day, the law enforcement source said. Hernandez told officers escorting him,'' `Hey man, I'm going to miss you guys.. I don't need any luck any more.' He gave you the impression, `It's kinda like no big deal.. It is what it is.'''. 5 things to know about the Hernandez jury. His sensational trial started in late January, just days before the Patriots Super Bowl victory over the Seattle Seahawks amid an unusually long and harsh New England winter. Prosecutors took months to present more than 130 witnesses to build their case. The defense wrapped its witnesses in less than a day. Prosecutors say Lloyd was seen June 17, 2013, around 2:30 a.m. with Hernandez and Hernandez's friends, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, in a rented silver Nissan Altima. Later that day, a jogger found his body riddled with gunshots. The prosecution portrayed Hernandez as cold, calculating and insecure -- a man who believed others should be grateful for his attention, one capable of murder for merely disrespecting him in the presence of others. McCauley asked jurors in closing arguments : What was Hernandez talking about a day after Lloyd's bullet-riddled body was found at a Massachusetts industrial park ?'' `My endorsements are gone,''' Hernandez said, according to McCauley. ``He's not talking about Odin.''. Who is Odin Lloyd ?. Wallace and Ortiz were longtime friends of Hernandez, who had complete control of them, the prosecution said. In closing arguments, McCauley reminded the jury of testimony about Hernandez and his two friends sunbathing poolside hours after the slaying, drinking smoothies, and Hernandez at times leaving his then 8-month-old child with the two men. ``These guys.. will do whatever he wants,'' the prosecutor said of Hernandez. The motive for the killing has never been clearly spelled out, but prosecutors said Lloyd might have done or said something that didn't sit well with Hernandez. They said Hernandez rounded up some friends and orchestrated the killing to settle the score. McCauley said a perceived slight that might seem insignificant to someone, such as disrespect, would easily offend Hernandez. Shayanna Jenkins, Hernandez's fiancee, testified that Hernandez told her to dispose of a box from the couple's home that she said reeked of marijuana. She also said she didn't know what was in the box. The prosecution has said the murder weapon, which has not been recovered, was in the box. After concealing the box with her daughter's clothing, Jenkins said she threw it away in ``a random dumpster'' but could not remember where. Another piece of the state's case was grainy footage from Hernandez's home security system that prosecutors said showed him holding a.45 - caliber handgun, the same kind of gun police said was used to kill Lloyd. Inside the case against Aaron Hernandez. Wallace and Ortiz, who were also charged with murder, have pleaded not guilty and will be tried separately. Sultan, Hernandez's attorney, told jurors that Hernandez ``witnessed'' Lloyd's killing, ``committed by somebody he knew,'' and that the former NFL player ``really didn't know what to do, so he put one foot in front of another'' and moved on with his life. Two other men who were drug dealers allegedly killed Lloyd, Sultan told the jury. Lloyd, who was working for a landscaping firm at the time of his killing, played football for the Boston Bandits, the oldest semi-pro team in Boston and the winner of four championships in the New England Football League, the team's website says. Outside court on Wednesday, Ward fought back tears as she remembered her son as ``the most precious gift in my life.''. ``Just like God has left his footprint in the sand, my baby's footprint is in my heart forever,'' Ward said. ``He was my strength. I love him dearly.''. Lloyd's sister Olivia Thibou said she felt as if she lived in a dream world. ``It's just another day that Odin is not here.''. What prison life will be like for Aaron Hernandez. CNN's Laura Dolan and Susan Candiotti reported from Fall River, and CNN's Ray Sanchez wrote from New York. CNN's Greg Botelho, Jason Hanna, Ashley Fantz, Holly Yan and Mike Pearson contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Looting, fires and violence descended on Baltimore. Like most who know and love that city, I was heartbroken. I was once a cop in Baltimore. Police, trying to save their city last weekend, were blamed both for doing too little and for doing too much. The ghetto, and I'm talking class and not race, was on full display by Monday. The whole nation saw beautiful Baltimore at its worst. The protests started in response to the death of Freddie Gray in police hands. We still don't know what happened to Freddie Gray. Something bad happened. There's an investigation. Maybe the investigation should be going faster. But maybe rushing the investigation would compromise prosecution. ( And forced testimony can't be used in prosecution ; police officers too have constitutional rights as criminal defendants. ) I don't know. Here's the thing : Police officers who weren't there don't know what happened to Freddie Gray. If there are criminally guilty cops, police have no problem with justice. But those who caused destruction on Monday had little, if anything, to do with Freddie Gray protests. They were, as the mayor put it, thugs. Call them what you will, normally what happens in the hood stays in the hood. Those who cut fire hoses and burned down homes and businesses ? Police deal with them every day, literally. Those criminals didn't just appear on Monday, and they won't be gone tomorrow. They live there, without jobs, education, mainstream social skills, or hope. They don't come from stable families. They don't go to church. Most violent criminals are actively or passively involved in the drug trade. In Baltimore this year -- just like last year and just like next year -- police will arrest tens of thousands of poor black men, mostly on drug charges. From the same pool, 200 will be shot and killed. Another 200 will do the killing. These are communities, like the Baltimore's Eastern District, in which more than 10 % of men are murdered. If all of America had homicide levels found in parts of Baltimore, there would be over 300,000 murders per year ( as opposed to the still shamefully high 12,000 homicides in America ). And yet some continue to think of police as the main problem rather than part of the solution. But Baltimore is not Ferguson. The police department is 50 % non-white. The mayor is black. So is the police commissioner. The city is 65 % African-American. So imagine you're a young white cop, as I was, in a rough neighborhood. A nice retired African-American gentleman calls 911 because the kids in front of his house, also black, are rowdy, breaking bottles, selling drugs, and otherwise being disrespectful. Just out of the police academy, I pulled up to countless of these situations. What to do ? Usually I stopped, stared, and they moved on. Sometimes I would get out of my car. But I shouldn't have to. We all played by the same rules. It's about respect. Sometimes I would ask politely. Sometimes I had to order rudely. Sometimes I would ask for ID. Sometimes I would frisk, search, or arrest. That's what cops do. Every day. That's what I did. I had to. That was my job. Ultimately police are in a no-win situation. And when things go wrong, they go wrong fast. People run. There are fights. Guns. People get hurt. Sometimes people die. Sometimes -- not very often -- it's the police officer's fault. But even if there were no racist or brutal cops -- if every cop were a polite, fit, college-educated, bilingual, African-American gentleman or woman -- this wouldn't solve the greater problems of the ghetto or even police abuse. Police abuse has less to do with race than poverty and class. And police will never solve the problems of absent parents, mass incarceration, or a violence culture centered around the economics of drug prohibition. Even so, rather than face up to our problems, we calls for the cops to do something, anything. Yes, bad cops need to be punished. But it's too easy to blame police for all our problems. Problems police did not cause and can not solve. And then when a cop makes a mistake, as one inevitably will, we jump on all police with a confident smugness and unbecoming glee. The problems in policing mirror the problems of society. We can and should improve police. The best way to do that is to improve society. True justice requires us to look both inward for blame and outward to the suffering around us. The worst thing we could do is nothing at all.
Tripoli, Libya ( CNN ) It took one Somali woman seven months and 4,000 miles to trek to Libya. From there, she hoped to cross the Mediterranean Sea so her baby could be born in Europe. She didn't get there. She was arrested as she was sailing north and is now one of 350 migrants being held in a facility just outside Tripoli. Other pregnant women fleeing repression have come to Libya -- many fleeing fighting that refuses to stop. They, like male migrants, are willing to risk their lives on crowded boats to make the final part of the trip. The Somali woman's baby, Sabrine, was born a week after she was detained. Libyan officials are in a quandary. The prison head admitted to CNN there is no system in place to send these people home, jail them or let them go. About one-third of the migrants are from Eritrea on the east coast of Africa. They denied they were heading to Europe and told CNN they just want to go home, which is several thousands of miles away. In one sense, they are fortunate, even though the time in prison seems like forever. They are alive. Many others have died when smugglers' ships sink. Bodies wash up on Libyan beaches. They are anonymous -- no IDs, no links to who they were and what was in their past that drove them to try the dangerous trip. In Malta, there are similar stories of death. On Thursday, the bare, stark caskets came in one by one on the shoulders of Maltese soldiers. The tears soon came along with them. That was the scene in a tent outside the Mater Dei Hospital in Valletta, Malta, a chance for citizens and dignitaries to remember 24 of what's thought to be hundreds of migrants killed when their crammed ship sank in the Mediterranean Sea. Almost all the other victims haven't been accounted for yet, with the presumption that their bodies remain trapped inside the 66-foot ( 20-meter ) boat that capsized late Saturday roughly 70 miles ( 113 kilometers ) north of Libya. Italian authorities have said that many of the estimated 850 aboard had been locked in the ship's lower levels with no way out. Why I fled : Migrants share their stories. The tragedy has prompted questions about the growing migrant crisis facing Europe, as well as about who is responsible for Saturday's tragedy. The Catania, Italy, prosecutor's office announced Tuesday that the vessel's 27-year-old captain, Mohammed Ali Malek, and crew member Mahmud Bikhit have been arrested on suspicion of ``reckless shipwreck, multiple manslaughter ( and ) abetting clandestine immigration'' for their roles in the disaster. Those questions still need to be answered. But Thursday, at least, was a day for reflection -- about lives snuffed out simply because people wanted a better life. ``This event reminds us that we are all immigrants and our life is a journey of migration,'' Imam Mohammed El Sadi said at Thursday's funeral. ``Our grandparents Adam and Eve, peace be onto them, emigrated from heaven to earth. We emigrated from our mothers' wombs to this world, and we will immigrate to the graves.''. The deaths are the latest illustration of the increasing flow of migrants from North Africa and the Middle East through the Mediterranean and into Europe -- assuming they survive the trip. Gemma Parkin, a spokeswoman for Save the Children, said that the number of migrants who have fled to find refuge in Europe has skyrocketed 70 % this year over last, a dramatic rise that she attributed mostly to the deteriorating security situation in Libya. About 8 % of the recorded migrants between January and April 19 of this year are children, Parkin said. Of those, 70 % aren't unaccompanied by adults -- some of them as young as 9 years old. Such numbers represent only people rescued at sea or caught once they reach land. Frontex, the European Union's border management agency, says that many illegal immigrants get through without being detected ; moreover, most of them come in legally via airports and then overstay their visas. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reported from Tripoli and CNN's Steve Almasy and Greg Botelho wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Ingrid Formanek in Catania, Italy, contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A massive brawl involving two dozen people at a Queens, New York, casino was captured on video Friday night. The cell phone video shows a number of men throwing punches and even chairs into crowds of people. Stanchions can be seen flying and being used as weapons in the chaotic scene. The fight took place in the food court area of Resorts World Casino where approximately 300 people were still at the scene when police arrived, according to the New York Police Department. One witness told CNN affiliate WCBS the scene was ``chaotic'' and compared it to a World Wrestling Entertainment event. The brawl took place in front of Fat Tuesday, which opened at the food court Friday. Police said that there was a drink special advertised at the casino. Several thousand dollars' worth of damages was done to the casino, police said, and an officer was taken to the hospital for a hand injury. Three men were arrestted in connection to the brawl, according to police. Two of the men were given a summons for disorderly conduct and released, while the third remains in custody and has been charged with obstructing governmental administration, resisting arrest, and disorderly conduct. Police were not able to confirm the cause of the fight and the case is still under investigation, the NYPD said. CNN's Joe Sutton contributed to this report.
( CNN ) We did it again, in another American city. We set Baltimore on fire this time. We brutalized black bodies. We turned a funeral into a riot. We let things get out of hand. We looted. We threw stones at policemen. We threw stones at citizens. We created camera-ready chaos, and we replayed the images. We created a culture of such deep distrust and disrespect that violence seemed the inevitable response. We let the violence flow. We let the violence stand for everything that's wrong with the things we already didn't like. By now you may be asking, ``Who's we ?'' You may be saying with some irritation, ``Don't lump me in with them. I didn't have anything to do with it.''. To which the only real answer can be : Stop kidding yourself. The word ``we'' is one of the great American words. We the People. Yes we can. We are family. I use ``we'' a lot when I talk about our country's achievements. I like to say we won the Second World War, we put a man on the moon, we invented the Internet, we gave the world jazz. Well, if I -- a son of immigrants whose family had nothing to do with any of those accomplishments -- if I get to claim those aspects of American history, then surely I have to claim the unsavory aspects too. ``We'' cuts both ways. We enslaved Africans. We cut Reconstruction short and made a mockery of equal citizenship. We supported Jim Crow, then redlined, subordinated, and ghettoized African-Americans. We cut blacks out of the New Deal. We created a polity in which racial inequity and economic inequality magnify each other unrelentingly. We tried to put a lid on it with heavy policing and a War on Drugs. We failed. We are the authors of every page of Baltimore's story. Don't tell me it's not your responsibility or mine. About how slavery and its legacy are artifacts of a time past. Someone else's problem. No, we own them all. And we all have to face that before we can fix anything in Baltimore or beyond. But there's another dimension of the story of ``we'' that matters as well. It's about progressives and conservatives and their competing stories of how we got here. Every time protests and violence break out in response to police brutality, the same depressing pattern breaks out. The event becomes simply a Rorschach test for left and right, and each side sees in the rioting confirmation of its prior views. For the left, it's about the deep structural root causes of the alienation and violence. Liberals gravitate on social media to commentaries or reactions that reinforce this frame, like the surprisingly astute comments from the Baltimore Orioles executive who spelled out why a long history of racial injustice and economic disenfranchisement made rioting nearly inevitable. Conservatives gravitate to their own frames, about a lack of personal responsibility or role models among poor urban blacks, about the failures of Great Society and Democratic programs, and about how it all comes back to a president ( who happens to be black ) who has divided us by focusing so much on race. What gets lost in this Groundhog Day replay of left-right frames is a simple reality that we all have to recognize : Both longstanding structural racism and personal irresponsibility are on display this week. Both a history of police brutality and a present crisis of street violence. Both an inherited, multigenerational lack of opportunity and a dearth of leaders willing to address it. We can not separate out the aspects of the problem that don't fit our preferred explanation -- not if we are sincere about solving the problem. And until more people can see this, we will not see progress. We can't judge looters for their antisocial behavior without judging a color-caste structure and a school-to-prison pipeline that has flushed them away like so much refuse. By the same token, we can't keep opining about root causes without also supporting the parents and pastors and neighbors who, in their own small ways, are organizing each other to break the cycle of brokenness. I'm of the left. But it can not possibly be that only those with whom I disagree are responsible for what is happening in Baltimore. It can not possibly be that only my worldview contains all the solutions. Whatever our political perspective, we need to open our eyes to what is actually happening in Baltimore and other cities in the United States in the second decade of the 21st century. It is an abomination. We should all be able to say that. It's time to push each other out of our ideological and identity comfort zones and build unlikely coalitions to create more opportunity. It's time to act like we are all in charge. Because we are. And there is no other ``we'' waiting in the wings.
( CNN ) It takes a village to raise a triathlete. Since returning home from our kickoff weekend where we got to experience life as a full-time triathlete, I've been juggling training life with a full-time job, hectic commute and time with friends and family. With my Fit Nation teammates spread far and wide, this was a solo effort. Throw in a notorious Chicago winter that refused to go gently into that good night, and I'll admit it : I was not very diligent in getting all of my training done. ``Partner up,'' the Facebook status read. Jae Rockwell, the founder of my local women's fitness groups, Women RUN the World, posted this mantra to help us keep ourselves accountable. And so that's what I did. I'm lucky to count a handful of both experienced and aspiring triathletes among my friends. So, I reached out to them to ask what they were up to. Annastasia W., who's training for her first Ironman half-triathlon this summer, suggested a group brick workout at our local gym. She invited several other women, including complete newbies, through the SoleTri Sisters Facebook group and 10 of us met up on a cold Chicago morning to swim for 15 minutes, bike for 30 minutes and run for 15 minutes. That was great motivation to keep up with my workouts for the next week. A few weeks later, I traveled to Little Rock, Arkansas, to run a marathon. I traveled to Little Rock with three phenomenal ``fitspirations'' : Samantha Goga, Natali Villarruel and Umber Rahman -- who are members of an obstacle course race group called the Midwest Vikings. Seeing how much fun they've had participating in some really daunting physical challenges helped me push through some of the more difficult moments of running my first marathon !. Swimming remains my weakest link. I just learned to swim last summer. Sometimes I forget that and don't cut myself any slack or recognize how far I've come. Once my formal swim class ended in February I found myself seriously slacking on my swim training. Enter my swim angels, Lovie Twine and Eanista Bailey. They took me out into Lake Michigan last year after my first swim class was complete for a celebratory ``swim'' ( which was really just wading ). It was great to have them join me for a swim workout. I appreciated their perspective and gentle coaching. And you know what was happening while I was partnering up ? Spring was on the way ! And that meant I could finally break free of my Computrainer bike sessions and hit the road. I was lucky enough to connect with the Major Taylor Cycling Club of Chicago ( MTC3 ) for a series of novice rides they've been hosting on local trails around Chicagoland. With two falls behind me ( hey, those clips take some getting used to ), we got in nearly 23 miles and a new addiction was born. Riding outside with the wind whipping your face, chasing your friends and breathing fresh air is exhilarating and I'm looking forward to many more rides outdoors. I want to say thank you to the fellowship of fitness that I've been lucky enough to find. There are so many others we keep me inspired, accountable and motivated. I'm so grateful that they keep me moving in the right direction and I hope that I can help others do the same. So when times get tough, partner up !
( CNN ) I was a copygirl in my fourth month at the Chicago Daily News, my second assigned to the city desk. It had become my custom at 4 o'clock, when the city desk secretary left for the day, to move over to her spot to help answer the phones as the beat reporters called in to check out for the day. It was so quiet that afternoon -- 70 years ago, on Thursday, April 12, 1945 -- the city editor and assistant city editor had felt comfortable leaving their desks. The second city editor, Guy Housley, was to my left. To my right, perhaps 6 feet away, the telegraph editor, George Dodge. At 4:50, the old-fashioned upright ``candlestick'' telephone on his desk rang -- the direct line The Associated Press used to alert editors to major news events. He answered, replaced the bell-like receiver on its hook and said to everyone in general and no one in particular, ``Roosevelt is dead.''. The silence of shock. Until Dodge jumped up so quickly, his swivel chair crashed into the glass-fronted bookcase behind him -- a symphonic orchestra cymbals sound -- and ran to what was called the Tube Room, with its row of Associated Press Teletype machines. Housley said, ``Clear the decks for action.''. The words had barely cleared his lips when City Editor Clem Lane half-ran back into the city room. Hal O'Flaherty, director of the Daily News Foreign Service, was only a step or two behind. The door of the managing editor's office that opened into the city room flew open, and Managing Editor Everett Norlander joined them around the copy desk, where Dodge was editing the bulletin. Lane wheeled toward the rewrite desk. ``Cleveland ! Get downstairs. Get the reaction.''. The main entrance to the Chicago Daily News building also served as the main entrance to the Northwestern Railroad terminal, with its commuter trains to the North Shore communities. A veritable sea of lemmings would be coming up that marble incline for the next hour. Not that Charlie Cleveland could linger. The Daily News, an afternoon newspaper, was strictly limited in the hours it could publish. Only an hour or so remained for EXTRAs. I knew clips would be needed and ran to the library, the old ``morgue.'' They'd heard and had a splay of white envelopes on President Franklin D. Roosevelt -- big and bulging -- spread out. They had one, as I recall -- a small one -- on Harry S. Truman. I grabbed it and ran back down the corridor. Bob Lewin, who usually handled labor stories, had been told ``to do something on the new president.'' He opened the Truman envelope, spread out the newspaper clippings and reached for one of the ``books'' in a wire basket within easy reach of reporters and rewritemen : five sheets of copy paper stapled together, with four sheets of carbon paper between. To be rolled into typewriters and have the necessary copies : the top one for the editor, a carbon copy for the reporter's reference and three others for distribution to various editors or news desks. Lewin's eyes moved over the clippings, evaluating, rejecting, selecting, deciding what to use. At last, he started typing. Because of the time pressure, the story would be done in ``short takes'' : two, maybe three paragraphs at a time. He wrote :. ``The new President -- the 33d in the history of the United States -- is Harry S. Truman. ``He was automatically elevated to the presidency on the death of President Roosevelt. ``Truman will be 61 on May 8.''. Lewin ripped the book out of the typewriter roller. I left him the bottom page for reference and rushed the top page to Lane. Back by Lewin, I read over his shoulder :. ``Born in Lamar, Mo., Truman's political rise was spectacular. ``He was relatively little known outside of his home state when he was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1934. He had the backing of the late Tom ``Boss'' Prendergast, of the Kansas City machine. This time, Lewin gave me a nod. I pulled out the book, the typewriter roller ratcheting protest. After two more takes, Lane said, ``Okay, that's it.''. Cleveland was back. The cricket-like click click click of typewriter keys at the rewrite desk drew me, and I stood by to take his story to Lane :. ``Word of President Roosevelt's death struck Chicago late this afternoon with numbing suddenness. ``Within a few minutes after the bulletins came to The Daily News, the office switchboards were swamped with calls for verification. ``So great were the number of calls, that the lines became clogged and many queries could not be handled. ``Many of the callers spoke as if disbelieving the report -- as if it were some wildly spread rumor. ``The same kind of uncertainty was noticed in the faces of the crowds thronging homeward. Word passed from one to another :. '' `Did you hear that ? Roosevelt is dead ? Is it true' ?''. Cleveland's story delivered, I returned to the city desk to help with the calls. Many, as he had mentioned, from people wanting to know whether it was true but some from reporters and beat men who'd been heading home, reporting the reaction where they were. A copyboy rushed around the room, dropping off copies of the first EXTRA -- the simple news in a 76-point-type headline : ROOSEVELT DEAD. Statements began coming in from local officials and civic leaders, a few phoned in but most from the City News Bureau, which served the Chicago newspapers with local news as the wire services did with national news. I sorted through the multiple copies, separating them into ever-growing stacks. The second EXTRA was dropped off. ROOSEVELT DEAD With the subhead : Dies at 63 of Hemorrhage in Georgia. The last EXTRA had a three-column photo of Roosevelt, edged in black, a two-column of Truman and a story on the president's death and funeral plans. As the editors talked, I heard one ask, ``What kind of president do you think he'll make ?'' And O'Flaherty, director of the Daily News Foreign Service, said, ``If there's anything to the American system, the man will rise to the office.''. I've thought of that through the years as Truman has risen in the opinion of presidential historians. The atom bomb. The Marshall Plan. The Berlin Airlift. The Truman Doctrine. Recognition of the state of Israel. Desegregation of the armed services. Ordering U.S. forces to oppose the invading forces when North Korea crossed the 38th Parallel and invaded South Korea, then organizing a United Nations army. Firing Douglas MacArthur. I continued to sort the statements from officials. Lane asked me to take one set down to Lloyd Lewis. The chief editorial writer had a corner office at the far end of the long office corridor. I found him sitting in the dark, looking out the window at the Chicago skyline. Sensing my presence, he said, ``I wonder what the world will be like without him.''. ``I don't know, sir.'' In the dusk, the quiet, I suspect he didn't expect an answer, but I thought about Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who served in the White House for an unprecedented 12 years. ``He's the only president I can remember.''. He turned, saw me in the doorway, a teenager in penny loafers, a cardigan sweater and a pleated plaid skirt, and said with a nod, ``Of course.''. I gave him the statements and updated him on the latest news. ``The funeral train will bring his body up from Georgia.. to Washington, I mean.''. The next morning, I turned to the editorial page to see what he'd written. Lewis took his cue from Roosevelt's address to a joint session of the Congress following his trip to Yalta. The headline :. ``It has been a long journey. I trust you will agree it has been a fruitful one.''. Note : An earlier version of this article incorrectly quoted FDR's age in the Chicago Daily News subhead. He was 63.
( CNN ) Sen. Elizabeth Warren insists she's not running for president. But her description of a 2016 ``dream'' presidential candidate sounds a lot like, well, her. Warren, during an appearance Friday on CNN's ``New Day,'' said she wanted to see someone willing to fight for the middle class and ``make Washington work for families again.''. Warren says she feels that Washington functions well for special interest groups and the well-connected but leaves out the rest of the nation. '' ( I've ) spent my whole life studying what's happening to America's middle class and watching year by year, one blow after another,'' she said. ``We live in an America now where the game is rigged, where Washington works really great for those who hire armies of lobbyists, armies of lawyers. It's just not working so well for the rest of America.''. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, also got specific with her wish list, mentioning that a candidate willing to lower the interest rates on student loans and shore up Social Security would get high marks from her. What the economy means for 2016. She wouldn't say which of the slew of declared or yet-to-declare candidates fit that bill, but she did want to give all of them a chance as the 2016 campaign kicks off. ``I really want to give everybody who gets in this race a chance to get out there and put their agenda in front of us,'' she said. However, Warren said the two Republican candidates who have gotten into the race -- Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul -- have already disqualified themselves in her eyes because of how they've voted in Congress. ``I've watched them vote,'' Warren said. ``They voted against the Social Security benefits increase. They voted against reducing the interest rate on student loans.''. Opinion : Can Democrats really take on Wall Street ?. Warren, a former special adviser for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is something of a political rock star in the eyes of many liberal and progressive voters because of her populist leanings and her passionate calls for an end to income inequality. Many of them want her to get into the race and become a viable challenger to Democratic frontrunner Hilary Clinton. When asked, yet again, if she was going to run, Warren didn't exactly say no. ``I want to see who else gets in this race,'' she said. ``And I want to see what the issues are that they push.''
Washington ( CNN ) It's the mistake that Hillary Clinton won't make again : ignoring her gender. The low-key video she released on Sunday announcing her run for the White House is filled with women -- young, old, black, white, Asian and Latina -- working in their gardens, taking care of their kids and getting ready for life in the working world. Clinton, who made herself the center of her campaign announcement in 2007, is barely in the video at all, appearing at the end as a kind of everywoman whose story and fight could be folded in with all the others. ``I'm getting ready to do something, too. I'm running for president,'' Clinton said in the video. ``Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion -- so you can do more than just get by -- you can get ahead.''. Clinton often says there's no better time in history to be born female than the present. She's now betting that there is no better time for her to make history as the nation's first woman president. The challenge for Clinton in breaking the ``highest, hardest glass ceiling'' that she described in 2008 is laying out a precise campaign vision that connects with all voters, while generating excitement and anticipation over the possibility of making history. Clinton could be helped by an improving climate for women in politics. There are historic numbers of women in Congress, and the idea of ``leaning in'' is a catch phrase among professional women. Meanwhile, the feminism label doesn't seem as charged as it once was -- people from Beyonce to actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt are identifying as feminist. ``As far as the political culture and culture in general, this is as good a time as any for a women to run for the highest office. There is a willingness now to promote pro-women messages,'' said Jennifer Lawless, who runs the Women & Politics Institute at American University. ``People are ready for a woman president. The question is this : Are they ready for Hillary as that woman ?''. According to a recent Pew poll, nearly three quarters of Americans expect to see a woman president in their lifetime. But that hope splits along partisan -- not gender -- lines. Only 20 % of Republican women hope to see a woman president and nearly 70 % of Democratic women do. INTERACTIVE : Hillary Clinton tries again. In the run-up to her announcement and at women-centered events, Clinton sometimes strode on stage to the song ``I'm Every Woman,'' and recalled how she juggled work and motherhood as a young lawyer. She has acknowledged a double standard for women and advised women to be tough. She has also frequently mentioned her granddaughter, Charlotte, as the reason she wants to remain in public life, a theme that will no doubt be heard on the campaign trail as she kicks off a tour in Iowa this week with small events. She made pushing for the expansion of the rights of women and girls part of her diplomatic work as secretary of state, as detailed in her book ``Hard Choices.''. Her new campaign website is plastered with pictures of women, with Clinton, in a blue cloth coat, holding a cup of coffee listening intently to another woman as a man looks on. The emphasis on women -- and the progress of women -- as a possible underlying campaign theme is a reversal of her 2008 strategy, which stressed experience and competence over history. But the problem with that approach was that avoiding the obvious wasn't possible and didn't make for good politics. ``She is the gender card. She doesn't need to play it because she embodies it. She is the woman candidate. She has shared women's experiences. Being a mom and a grandmother,'' said Democratic pollster Celinda Lake. ``She will just naturally bring it in. If she overplayed it, which she won't, it could backfire.''. Republicans certainly hope the gender play backfires and that voters are fatigued by the kind of identity politics that have defined the Obama years. The Wayne LaPierre, the National Rifle Association's president, put it this way at the group's recent annual meeting : ``Eight years of one demographically symbolic president is enough.''. Speaking on CNN's ``State of the Union'' Sunday, Tennessee Rep. Marsha Blackburn acknowledged that many women would like to see a female president in their lifetime but said she didn't think it would be Clinton. ``There's a couple of things there. Trust, honesty -- those get in her way,'' Blackburn said. ``As we talk about the polling that is out there, that gets in Hillary's way and she's not authentic.''. In 2014, Democratic candidates such as former Colorado Sen. Mark Udall proved that the ``war on women'' style of campaigning that worked so well in 2012 had reached its limits. Udall lost that race and picked up the nickname ``Mark Uterus'' along the way for his incessant focus on women's issues. And Democrats found that in states such as Texas, Kentucky and Georgia, white married women and white working class women tended to prefer Republicans. Katie Packer Gage, who has been talking to women in focus groups about Clinton's run, said that to many women, the ``idea of Hillary is more popular than the reality.''. ``She starts out having some benefits of gender because she is something different, but then starts to feel like a typical politician and gets back down to earth,'' said Packer Gage, who runs Burning Glass Consulting, a firm that coaches Republicans on appealing to women voters. ``You do see her starting to frame her campaign as a campaign for women, but that's a narrow campaign, not a winning campaign. You aren't going to win 100 % of women.''. Among Republicans, former Hewlett Packard CEO Carly Fiorina might mount a challenge to Clinton and try to neutralize some of the former first lady's strengths as the lone woman in a field dominated by men. Fiorina released a Facebook video Sunday in which she said Clinton was a ``highly intelligent woman'' but doesn't have a track record of accomplishment or trustworthiness. ``She's not the woman for the White House,'' Fiorina said. And among Democrats, former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb could jump in and be the champion for the white working man, a demographic that he has said is left out of the Democrat's increasingly diverse tent. Kentucky GOP Sen. Rand Paul, who launched his presidential campaign last week, has noted that the Clinton Foundation took money from foreign countries who oppress women, suggesting that the pro-woman framing won't be an easy sell. But Clinton will have some high-profile champions. Moments after her announcement, top Democrats rolled out endorsements, including Barbara Mikulski, the first Democratic woman elected to the Senate in her own right. ``Whoopee, Hillary is off and running,'' she wrote in a statement. ``I'm ready for Hillary. And America is ready for Hillary. She is going to break that glass ceiling once and for all.''. At a recent EMILY's List event before announcing her run, Clinton asked her supporters : ``Don't you someday want to see a woman president ?''. In that particular crowd the answering was a resounding yes. But it's unlikely that the same question will make it in her campaign speeches. After all, the answer across the country is much more complicated.
( CNN ) Hillary Clinton is now officially a candidate for president -- and the never ending Clinton story rumbles on. She has been a part of all our lives now for approaching a quarter of a century. She started as the first lady that the right loved to hate, then the deceived wife, next a senator, then a candidate for president in one of the most dynamic primaries in history and finally, a secretary of state. The Republicans have their aristocratic Bushes, the Democrats have their Clintons. And if Hillary or Jeb were to win two presidential terms, then in the 44 years from 1981 to 2025, 28 will have had a Clinton or a Bush in the White House. The great American republic now looks about as democratic as ``Game of Thrones.''. But even though Hillary Clinton has been around nearly my entire lifetime, The Economist may speak for many when it asks : ``What does Hillary stand for ?'' There is a paradox she presents : She is by far the best-known presidential candidate across both parties and, for the moment, almost unchallenged within her own. Yet even though Diane Feinstein can assert confidently that Hillary ``doesn't `need' ( the White House ). But she wants it'' -- the question unanswered is ``What for ?'' And for liberals, who believe that government is there to do something, it's this lack of definition that is surely so disconcerting about Clinton. There are good grounds for a liberal primary challenge to Clinton. The economy has revived under Obama but, say critics, largely to the benefit of Wall Street and the super-rich. The riots in Ferguson, Missouri, were a painful reminder that the poor, particularly the nonwhite poor, have been left behind. Clinton's credentials as a fighter against inequality are mixed. It is true, as the Wall Street Times notes, that she has previously called for ``universal prekindergarten, equal pay for women, increases in the minimum wage, paid family leave, higher taxes on the wealthy and an expanded Earned Income Tax Credit for working-poor families.'' But she counts among her friends precisely those corporate people blamed by the Occupy crowd for the country's inequality. Clinton is now, wisely, trying to distance herself from the Clinton Foundation -- after all, its fundraising efforts among foreign interests are hardly the stuff of populist liberalism. Then there is her foreign policy record. Clinton voted in 2002 to authorize the Iraq War ( though in her memoir last year, she backed away from the vote, writing that she ``got it wrong.'' ) As secretary of state, she is easily associated in the mind of the left with such controversies as the war in Syria, the crisis in Libya and the collapse of the Mubarak regime in Egypt. That some of these may have had little to do with her is beside the point. Clinton is going to have to spend a sizeable amount of time during the primaries explaining and defending the things that occurred while she was working for the Obama administration. Her personal ethics are on the agenda, too -- as demonstrated by the flap over her use of a private email account. These are the issues that her Democratic rivals are running on. In Iowa last week, both Jim Webb and Martin O'Malley attacked Wall Street, Webb adding that he had also opposed the Iraq War. Both men questioned the wisdom of Clintonian triangulation -- the idea that the White House can be won, and the country successfully governed, by always seeking the middle ground. Both men would be wise to focus on Iowa ; to contrast a populist, folksy campaign with the distant, over-managed style of Clinton. And both would do well to tap into a feeling that it would be unhealthy, undemocratic and plain dull to let Hillary coast to the nomination without a proper challenge. Nevertheless, there is a strange contradiction between the constant assertions that Democrats want a race and the polling evidence that Clinton would beat anyone who tried to take her on. Why do liberals demand a conversation about policy if the only answer they can still come up with is Hillary ?. The explanation is that the Democratic Party is intellectually impoverished. We hear often of the GOP's problems, how out of touch with a changing electorate it is and how it is divided against itself. The Democrats' challenges, however, are just as substantial. They've just been masked by having a charismatic man in the White House dominating the national conversation. Obama was elected at one of the highest points of national Democratic popularity. But, since then, Democratic power has been whittled away in successive congressional and local elections -- leaving the party without significant representation in the Deep South and absent any mildly conservative support at all. Everything was staked on Obamacare, which was ambitious and noble venture but without an obvious second act to follow. Democrats have become about defending the honor and reputation of their president rather than proposing bold new reforms. And the mood of their base can be felt either in the violence in Missouri or the disaffected, hollow laughter of ``The Daily Show'' audience. Cynicism abounds. Who really imagines that Hillary Clinton is the kind of personality that can spark a renaissance of thinking or a rejuvenation of activism among liberals ? To repeat the question : what is she exactly running for ?. If she has one trump card to play, however, it is reinvention. Recall that she started the 2008 primaries out as a moderate, play-it-safe frontrunner and ended them drinking beer in an Indiana bar -- reinvented, in the words of Barack Obama, as Annie Oakley. If there is little intellectualism left in liberalism, at least Hillary Clinton is clever. Which is why she remains an asset to her party.
( CNN ) After more than nine years of traveling through the solar system, NASA's New Horizons spacecraft has sent back its first color image of Pluto. The initial picture released on Tuesday shows a couple of orange-tinged blobs : Pluto and its largest moon, Charon. But the probe will soon be beaming back much sharper images and a wealth of other information about Pluto's remote, unexplored corner of the solar system. ``This is pure exploration ; we're going to turn points of light into a planet and a system of moons before your eyes,'' said Alan Stern, New Horizons' principal investigator. Launched in 2006, New Horizons is nearing the crucial point in its epic voyage of more than 3 billion miles. The probe is due to make its closest approach to Pluto on July 14. ``In an unprecedented flyby this July, our knowledge of what the Pluto system is really like will expand exponentially, and I have no doubt there will be exciting discoveries,'' said John Grunsfeld, an astronaut and associate administrator of the NASA Science Mission Directorate. Discovered in 1930, Pluto was once considered to be the smallest planet in the solar system. But scientists have since revised that view because of Pluto's size and location, demoting it to the status of ``dwarf planet'' : a planet that's too small to clear other objects out of its way. Pluto is 1,400 miles wide, roughly half the width of the continental United States. At 3.6 billion miles out in the solar system, it's about 40 times as far from the sun as Earth is. By discovering more about Pluto and its moons, New Horizons will shed light on a little-known third zone of the solar system, beyond the rocky planets and the gas giants. The area, known as the Kuiper Belt, contains ``mysterious small planets and planetary building blocks,'' according to NASA. It's known for producing comets, such as Halley's Comet, which orbits the sun about every 75 years. New Horizons will use its array of cameras and other instruments to study Pluto's surface and atmosphere, as well as its moons, which number at least five. It will also be on the lookout for rings and other satellites. Stern said the spacecraft's encounter was set to be ``an exploration bonanza unparalleled in anticipation since the storied missions of Voyager in the 1980s.''
( CNN ) Monday night, as unrest raged across Baltimore's streets, Amanda Rothschild lay awake in her Remington home, a neighborhood in the northern part of the city, thinking about what the next day would be like. As a co-owner of Charmington's, a cafe in the intersection of three major Baltimore neighborhoods, Rothschild knew that the cafe and its workers needed to support the city after all the unrest. ``There was some fear, but it was really mixed in with an overwhelming sense that everyone here needs help,'' she said. As protests erupt nationwide after the death of Freddie Gray, a black man who suffered a severe spinal cord injury while in police custody, some local businesses in Baltimore are banding together to show their support for the city, while others are left to rebuild or repair after Monday's riot. Late Monday evening over email, Rothschild and other workers from Charmington's decided that the cafe would remain closed on Tuesday so that staff members could spend the day in the community to help clean up or peacefully protest. 45 CVS workers still getting paid after riots shut down stores. The following morning, they posted a sign on the door telling patrons they were closed to partake in community action ( The cafe was not in Monday's protest zone ). ``We shut down not out of fear, but for solidarity,'' Rothschild said. It was solidarity for Baltimore, for the ``Black Lives Matter'' movement and for the local businesses that were destroyed during the rioting, the five-year Baltimore resident explained. With a warm, steaming crock pot of chicken and a cooler of ice water, Charmington's staff member Mike Dobson made his way down to the center of the rallying Tuesday and set up a stand. It was one of a handful of businesses passing out free food and water to protesters. The movement in Baltimore is personal for Dobson. The 23-year-old has been out on the streets peacefully demonstrating and offering free food every day since protests first started. ``I have witnessed police brutality. I was roughed up by police before. It is something you don't have to look very far to witness in West Baltimore,'' he said. The decision for Charmington's to close temporarily -- it has since reopened -- was meaningful, Dobson said. ``Our shop has been a part of the community since it opened, and we thought it was important to be a part of the community especially now.''. The feeling on Baltimore's streets has changed dramatically over the past few days. It's now peaceful and somewhat celebratory, Dobson said. ``There have been protests, but there have also been celebrations of all us together, and you can't have a celebration without food,'' he said. Not all businesses fared well. Some suffered major losses. Trevira London's store London Couture Boutique on Fleet Street was ransacked Monday. Her windows were smashed and her merchandised looted. ``They wiped me out,'' the 36-year-old said. She understands the frustration and can see why some local businesses are joining the movement to stand with their city, but she's also depressed that her business, one that she opened only four months ago, was destroyed in the wake of the unrest. And there are reports that the weeklong curfew is affecting smaller businesses. ``This is not a black or white issue. This has been going on decades. But there are ways to protest without hurting people, destroying buildings and looting,'' London said. In the meantime, she is thinking about boarding up her storefront just to be safe. Other businesses outside the major protest zones stayed open to be a resource for the community this past week. John Duda, an owner and worker at the cooperative restaurant and bookstore Red Emma's, decided to stay open after the upheaval on Monday. When workers heard that schools were going to be closed Tuesday, they felt the need to keep their door opens in order to provide free meals to students and those who are the most vulnerable in the city. ``We saw it on social media that people were trying to figure out how to feed school children who depend on school lunches and we thought we could stand in solidarity with folks,'' the 37-year-old said. The response was incredible, he said. Not only were students coming in for free lunches, but Baltimore residents were coming by to see whether they could volunteer and offer their support. ``I was initially a little concerned that the reaction and the unrest on Monday would take away from important issues facing the city,'' Duda said. But he has seen residents of the city step up to show their support for not only Freddie Gray, but the need to address social and economic disparities in the city. It has inspired the 12-year Baltimore resident and business owner to start peacefully protesting as well. On Wednesday, with the sun setting in the background, Duda marched with a group down the streets of Baltimore. The scene was beautiful, Duda said. Red Emma's is normally closed during the 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew, with the exception of having to close an hour early this Friday and Saturday. Charmington's is not normally open during the curfew hours. Duda said many of the people marching weren't just marching for Freddie Gray ; they were also marching for better education and work opportunities. Duda said these people have been voicing their frustrations for years, but it seems like now they are finally being heard. ``It took the city to almost tear itself apart for it to start coming together.''
( CNN ) The University of Florida and Emory University are investigating allegations that Zeta Beta Tau fraternity members disrespected wounded war veterans last weekend at Panama City Beach, Florida, by spitting, urinating and pouring beer on them. ``They actually spit on me and my service dog as well, and that's just so disrespectful and it hurts. I come and I feel honored and I feel safe and that I belong, but now I feel like I'm defending myself,'' wounded veteran Nicholas Connole told CNN affiliate WJHG. ``People were urinating off the balconies, throwing up in the elevators, making suggestive and sexual comments about veterans with their service dogs and derogatory and suggestive comments about their wives,'' said Linda Cope, organizer of the Warrior Beach Retreat. Both the University of Florida and the international office of Zeta Beta Tau are investigating, have apologized to the veterans group and the international office suspended activities for the fraternity chapters at the Florida school at at Emory in Atlanta. The fraternity's executive director, Laurence Bolotin said in a statement that three fraternity members from the University of Florida have been expelled from the group. ``While the details of their actions are still under investigation, there is no doubt that some of our members engaged in ugly and unacceptable behavior,'' Bolotin said. ``On behalf of our entire organization, I want to apologize to veterans, both those who were in Panama City Beach, and those who have felt the pain from afar, as well as to their families and all who support the Warrior Beach Retreat and had worked to make it a positive and meaningful occasion for attendees.''. ``I am personally offended and disappointed by the behavior that has been described to me,'' University of Florida Student Affairs Vice President Dave Kratzer said. ``This is not representative of our students or of the university.''. A reporter for CNN affiliate WFOX went to the University of Florida fraternity house on Friday seeking comment from members. Nobody answered her knock on the door or would talk when she approached them in the parking lot. Do fraternities make men behave badly ?. Emory University issued a statement saying it was appalled to hear of the disrespectful acts but said ``no evidence has been found to implicate Emory students in these reported incidents.''. Cope said the Wounded Warriors stayed at the same resort where the fraternities were having their spring formal. She said the fraternity members had too much to drink the night of April 17. ``We had an American flag flying outside and there was urination coming down from the balconies going onto the flag,'' she said. ``One of the drunk kids pulled a veteran American flag out of the ground and -LSB- we -RSB- made the boy put it back. This all happened Friday afternoon, through the night, into the late morning.''. She said the veterans and their families did not retaliate. ``These men and women acted like the leaders they are of our country,'' she said. Cope told WJHG she received an apology letter from the University of Florida president and the president of Zeta Beta Tau at that school. The website for Zeta Beta Tau says it's the the world's first Jewish fraternity and prides itself on being an inclusive organization. In 1989, it became the first fraternity to abolish pledging from its organization, the website said.
St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands ( CNN ) Government officials are trying to track down vacationers who stayed at villas in the Virgin Islands who may have been exposed to a deadly pesticide. Local officials said methyl bromide is suspected to have been used improperly several times in the U.S. Virgin Islands, in different parts of the island ; even the governor said his condominium complex was fumigated with it in 2013, without his knowledge. Investigators are still trying to piece together exactly what happened at the Sirenusa resort, where a Delaware family's vacation in paradise turned into a nightmare. Theresa Devine and Steve Esmond and their two children fell gravely ill and suffered seizures ; two brothers, ages 14 and 16, remain in comas. But this was likely not an isolated incident. Local authorities here tell CNN there is evidence methyl bromide was used at least twice at the gated Sirenusa resort on St. John by the pest control company Terminix. They also say Terminix used the pesticide across the islands on different occasions. Dawn Henry, the commissioner designee of the local Department of Planning and Natural Resources, or DPNR, said that while investigating what happened, the agency found methyl bromide was likely also used last fall at the same Sirenusa resort, as well as in a vacation villa in St. Croix and in two nontourist locations. Methyl bromide is banned from indoor use, and is only approved as an agricultural pesticide. Other pest control companies on the Virgin Islands were found in possession of methyl bromide and officials said they are checking records to see whether it was used improperly. Ken Mapp, the governor of the Virgin Islands, said it was. ``What these companies did or appear to have been doing is clearly a violation of the law and they'll be held accountable for it,'' Mapp said. He said he learned his own complex was fumigated with methyl bromide in 2013, but said there have been no additional reports of people falling ill. Authorities are trying to track down anyone who has stayed at the affected villas or who might have been exposed. Family slowly recovering from illness after Virgin Islands trip. Terminix issued a statement saying it is ``committed to performing all work.. in a manner that is safe for our customers, employees, the public and the environment'' and is ``looking into this matter internally, and cooperating with authorities.''. When CNN visited the Terminix office on St. Thomas, which is corporate-owned, an employee refused to comment, and another employee closed the door. Henry said all canisters of methyl bromide known to exist in the area have been confiscated and will be shipped off-island for destruction as soon as possible. In the meantime, an attorney for Esmond and Devine said the family is still struggling. The two teenage boys remain in comas. Their father has regained consciousness and is slowly getting better. Devine is in better condition and is undergoing occupational therapy. DPNR, the local environmental agency, already had been under scrutiny. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which has oversight, designated it ``high risk,'' saying the agency ``does not meet management standards.'' The EPA's inspector general is also investigating. According to the Department of Justice, a former commissioner and two DPNR directors have been sentenced to jail terms since 2008. That year, Dean C. Plaskett was sentenced to nine years for receiving kickbacks in awarding local government contracts. In 2014, Roberto Tapia, the Justice Department said, pleaded guilty to using his position to engage in illegal drug trafficking while he was head of that same agency. He was sentenced to 70 months in federal prison. In January, Mapp was sworn in and appointed Henry as a new designee to run the department, so it is under a new administration. A spokeswoman for the EPA said the DPNR has been cooperative in this investigation. She added that none of the troubles the agency has had are directly related to pesticide enforcement, but instead general practices. Mapp said the agency's problems have nothing to do with what happened to the Devine and Esmond's family. Instead, he blames the pesticide companies. ``It occurred because someone was cutting corners, thought they could enhance their profit margin and thought they could get away with it, and apparently in my own residence someone had been getting away with it for quite some time,'' Mapp said. Part of the investigation, he said, will be tracking whether the proper paperwork was filled out when the canisters were ordered, or if the pesticide was smuggled in. The Department of Justice is also investigating. ``If they purchased it and on these forms they said their use was for agriculture purposes, which is the only legal way they could use it, and then brought them into the territory and used them in commercial and residential buildings, that's a clear and malice violation of the law,'' Mapp said.
( CNN ) There is a special kind of hell reserved for the women who fall into the clutches of today's Jihadi fighters. We are all familiar with the brutality of ISIS, the self-anointed Islamic State, or Boko Haram, the Nigerian terrorists who have pledged allegiance to ISIS. This new wave of violent Islamist groups proudly brandishes medieval methods of cruelty through modern technology as a tool of recruitment and intimidation. But there is something very different about the way they treat women. The jihadi chiefs have a strategy beyond the battlefield. Their treatment of their female victims plays an important part in their ambitious radical strategy. Killing the enemy, the men, is a tactic for winning battles and conquering territory. What they do to women has an altogether different purpose : It is part of the larger plan of building a ``caliphate,'' a Sharia-ruled state complete with controls and norms harking back to the seventh century or, rather, to the group's interpretation of life in the early days of Islam. Yazidi girls who slipped ISIS after its siege of Mount Sinjar describe how they were sent to slave warehouses along with hundreds of other women. There, they were lined up in groups of 50 and displayed for ISIS fighters to choose among them, some for marriage, others for sexual slavery. The stories told to journalists or to human rights workers are confirmed by doctors who have examined the girls and say they have found evidence of repeated sexual assault. An investigation by Human Rights Watch found ``a system of organized rape and sexual assault, sexual slavery, and forced marriage by ISIS forces,'' actions that the group says ``are war crimes and may be crimes against humanity.''. In Nigeria, Boko Haram also has a very specific approach to women. The 276 students kidnapped one year ago make up a small portion of the 2,000 women and girls kidnapped by the group since 2014, according to Amnesty International. There, too, women captives move from house to house and village to village, forced to convert when they are not Muslim, and prepare for marriage to jihadis. It's a stark change from the previous generation of jihadis, when Osama bin Laden headed al Qaeda. Women were not a big part of al Qaeda's immediate plans because al Qaeda, unlike ISIS, viewed the establishment of a caliphate as a distant goal, one for future generations. In contrast, ISIS is actively engaged in building those social structures. And if you want to build a new society, you need more than soldiers. You also need women. Women are indispensable for establishing a functioning community, even one whose laws are brutally repressive. Even if women are viewed as the property of men, they are still needed, not just for cooking, cleaning and sex, but to keep the home and raise children ; hence the methodical capture, assault and subjugation. It is no accident that Boko Haram has targeted students, as it did in Chibok, or that Somalia's Al-Shabaab Islamists killed scores of women in the massacre at Kenya's Garissa University in Kenya. As in previous conflicts, women are spoils of war and rape is a weapon of war. It is a way to humiliate the enemy, a ``reward'' for soldiers and a tactic of ethnic cleansing. During the Bosnian war of the 1990s, experts said Serbian soldiers engaged in systematic rape, thinking the babies of raped Bosnian Muslim women would be Serbian. In Darfur, government-backed militias were accused of using mass rape to humiliate the non-Arab groups. But this is different. The women are not simply abused and discarded. ISIS and Boko Haram are enslaving them and incorporating them into the daily life of territories they rule, subjecting them to asphyxiating restrictions and abuses that have caused many of them to attempt suicide, according to some of those who escaped -- a phenomenon reminiscent of Afghanistan during the rule of the Taliban, another radical Islamic group that managed to take control and impose unspeakable rules for women. ISIS is going to great lengths to prove how its treatment of women, including the selling of Yazidi prisoners as slaves, is in keeping with Islamic law. Its online magazine cites Islamic writings proclaiming : ``We will conquer your Rome, break your crosses, and enslave your women, by the permission of Allah.''. The worst fate is reserved for non-Muslims, such as Yazidis, but Muslim women in areas seized by Islamists have seen disaster. From Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city, a modern town until ISIS conquered it last year, women say, ``They have withheld all freedoms from us'' and describe oppressive, fear-filled lives. The brutality of the new jihadis is more than mere sadism. If it is madness, it is madness with a method. And when it comes to women, the method is one that aims to control them as a way to establish the society they envision, one where some women say life is simply not worth living.
( CNN ) Jamal al-Labani had hoped to bring his pregnant wife and 2-year-daughter back to the United States from war-torn Yemen. But the gas station owner never made it on a flight back to his home Hayward, California. Family members have identified him as a victim killed in mortar strike last week in the southern Yemeni city of Aden. He is believed to be the first U.S. citizen killed in the current violence in Yemen. Early Tuesday evening, the 45-year-old al-Labani was on his way back from mosque prayers when he was hit in the back by shrapnel from a mortar shell, his family said. He died minutes later. Violence quickly escalated in Yemen soon afer al-Labani arrived in February. ``When he got ( to Aden ), after a few weeks he noticed things were starting to get bad and then the ( U.S. ) Embassy closed,'' his cousin Mohammed Alazzani told CNN. For the past three weeks, al-Labani had told family members he was concerned about not being able to evacuate as the situation deteriorated in the country, according to his cousin. More than 200 people have been killed in Aden in the past 11 days, according to Naef Al Bakri, Aden's deputy governor. Two days before al-Labani was killed, he told his family the last option was to try to cross the border into Oman and fly to Egypt, but he never made it. ``The airports got closed and things got worse and worse,'' Alazzani told CNN by phone. ``People were hoping things would get better, but they only got worse and worse.''. Yemen has been rocked by violence and political turmoil for months. Houthi rebels -- minority Shiites who have long complained of being marginalized in the majority Sunni country -- forced Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January, placing him under house arrest and taking over Sanaa, the country's capital. Hadi escaped in February, fled to the southern city of Aden and said he remained President. He fled to Saudi Arabia last month as the rebels and their military allies advanced on Aden. Now the violence is intensifying as Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations target the rebels in Yemen with airstrikes. Yemeni-Americans are trapped in the conflict, but haven't gotten enough help from the U.S. government, the Council on American-Islamic Relations told CNN Sunday. Zahra Billoo, a spokeswoman for the advocacy group, said it's helping al-Labani's family and the families of other Yemeni-Americans. ``All of these other governments, Russia, China, Ethiopia, India.. they have all been evacuating their citizens. So to say that it's impossible for the U.S. to evacuate their citizens is difficult to grasp,'' Billoo said. Responding to the criticism, the U.S. State Department told CNN that there are no current plans to evacuate private U.S. citizens from Yemen. ``We encourage all U.S. citizens to shelter in a secure location until they are able to depart safely. U.S. citizens wishing to depart should do so via commercial transportation options when they are available,'' a spokesman for the State Department told CNN in a statement. ``Additionally, some foreign governments may arrange transportation for their nationals and may be willing to offer assistance to others.''. Yemeni-American advocates think more could be done. ``There have been travel warnings to Yemen for a few years now. What's not clear is, are they saying `Be cautious' or `Don't go at all' ?'' Billoo asked. ``It still it doesn't sit well with many of us civil rights lawyers who believe that U.S. citizenship should be the ultimate protection.''. Fierce fighting continued across Yemen on Sunday amid an electrical blackout in parts of the country and political moves that could further fracture the already divided military. Intense airstrikes hit Sanaa overnight. Senior security officials in the Yemeni capital said the airstrikes targeted the military intelligence headquarters and the Defense Ministry's central command, military bases and missile depots. The blasts at the military compounds, which are inside the city, shattered the windows of many homes nearby. Meanwhile, some 16 million Yemenis living in provinces under control of Houthi rebels, including Sanaa, remained without power after an electrical blackout that began Saturday night. In the country's south, the Houthis remain in control of Aden's port and other strategic holdings, including the state broadcaster. The International Committee of the Red Cross said Sunday that Saudi Arabia has signed off on the delivery of medical supplies and personnel to Yemen, where the organization had warned that time was running out to save those wounded in airstrikes and ground fighting. CNN's Devon Sayers, Carma Hassan, Jennifer Deaton, Vasco Cotovio, Jason Hanna, Ben Brumfield, Samira Said and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Pope Francis will visit Cuba on his way to the United States in September, the Vatican said Wednesday -- a trip that will come months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two countries. The exact timing of the Cuba trip wasn't immediately released, but the Vatican said the Pope would stop in Cuba before his planned late September stops in Washington, New York and Philadelphia. In Havana's Cathedral Square, people reacted joyously to the news. ``The Pope coming here, maybe he could.. make more positive ways for Cubans to go towards religion, more than politics,'' said Raul Garcia, a Cuban-American who returned to the island. ``I think it's going to be a very good visit, very beneficial for the country.''. ``We are waiting for him. We're very happy he is coming,'' said Ulises, a man who sells brightly colored paintings of antique cars to tourists on the street next to the sprawling Havana Cathedral. ``He should come and get to know it and walk around the pretty spots in Havana.''. Cuba's state-run television reported that Francis would visit, but like the Vatican did not report exactly when he would arrive. Francis, the first pope from Latin America, played a role in restarting diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States, earning praise from both U.S. President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro. The Pope made personal pleas to Obama and Cuban leaders in private letters, writing that the two nations should try to reset their relations after decades of friction. The Vatican also hosted talks between U.S. and Cuban delegations in October, where they hashed out aspects of a new trade policy and discussed the release of jailed American contractor Alan Gross, who was freed as part of the detente between the two countries. ``I want to thank His Holiness, Pope Francis, whose moral example shows us the importance of pursuing the world as it should be, rather than simply settling for the world as it is,'' Obama said in December as he announced a U.S. policy shift on Cuba. Since his election in 2013, Pope Francis has displayed a deep interest in international affairs. He repeatedly urged Western leaders not to bomb Syria, hosted a prayer service between Israeli and Palestinian leaders at the Vatican and waded into diplomatic controversy last week by referring to the killing of 1.5 million Armenians a century ago as a ``genocide.'' The latter move deeply upset Turkish leaders, who recalled their Vatican ambassador. The Pope is expected to continue his international activism in July with a trip to South America, where he will visit Ecuador, Bolivia and Paraguay. In late September, Francis will visit Washington, where he will address Congress ; New York, where he will address the U.N. General Assembly ; and Philadelphia, where he will celebrate a public Mass that's expected to draw more than 1 million people. Francis will be the third consecutive leader of the Roman Catholic Church to visit Cuba. St. John Paul II stopped there for several days in 1998, and Pope Benedict XVI visited for three days in 2012. Church officials in Havana said that they expect Francis' visit to be shorter than those of his predecessors. Officials from the Vatican are expected to travel to the island soon to finalize logistics for Francis' trip, the officials said. CNN's Patrick Oppmann reported from Havana. CNN's Jason Hanna wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Hada Messia contributed to this report from Rome.
( CNN ) One of the biggest TV events of all time is being reimagined for new audiences. ``Roots,'' the epic miniseries about an African-American slave and his descendants, had a staggering audience of over 100 million viewers back in 1977. Now A&E networks are remaking the miniseries, to air in 2016. A&E, Lifetime and History ( formerly the History Channel ) announced Thursday that the three networks would simulcast a remake of the saga of Kunta Kinte, an African who was captured, shipped to America and sold into slavery to work on a Virginia plantation. LeVar Burton, who portrayed Kinte in the original, will co-executive produce the new miniseries. A press release describes the new version as ``original'' and ``contemporary'' and will draw more from Alex Haley's classic novel, ``Roots : The Saga of an American Family.'' Producers will consult scholars in African and African-American history for added authenticity. ``We are proud to bring this saga to fans of the original, as well as to a new generation that will experience this powerful and poignant tale for the first time,'' said Dirk Hoogstra, History's executive vice president and general manager. ``Audiences will once again feel the impact of Kunta Kinte's indomitable spirit.''. Executive producer Mark Wolper, son of the original's producer David L. Wolper, added, ``Kunta Kinte began telling his story over 200 years ago and that story went through his family lineage, to Alex Haley, to my father, and now the mantle rests with me. Like Kunta Kinte fought to tell his story over and over again, so must we.''. The remade ``Roots'' will encounter a new generation of viewers who have witnessed Barack Obama make history as the nation's first African-American president and ``12 Years a Slave'' win the Oscar for Best Picture, but also widespread racial unrest over police treatment of black suspects in many U.S. cities. ``My career began with `Roots' and I am proud to be a part of this new adaptation,'' said Burton. ``There is a huge audience of contemporary young Americans who do not know the story of `Roots' or its importance.''
( CNN ) It's easy to be anxious about the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. After all, this is a brutal organization that not only kills but seems to revel in doing so in ways designed to shock the world -- from the beheadings of journalists to burning a Jordanian pilot alive. Such moves are part of this murky group's propaganda and its deliberate efforts to manipulate information. So what can and should we make of the organization ?. I explore the issue in depth in a special airing Sunday night. And although it's important to start with the caveat that ISIS is indeed trying to scare and confuse us, I took away some tentative lessons from speaking with the people who have traveled inside the minds of ISIS. First, ISIS is clearly about religion -- its version of radical Islam -- but it is also about power. There is increasing evidence that the military backbone of ISIS is made up not by a group of Islamic zealots, but rather high-ranking officers from Saddam Hussein's army -- Baathists who were at least ostensibly secular. An internal ISIS report detailing its organizational structure was reported on last week in the German weekly Der Spiegel. That report describes a group that uses its religious ideology as a recruiting and governing philosophy, much like communism. But underneath it, much like communism, is simply a drive for control, a lust for power. Next, ISIS presents itself as a global organization, but it has thrived because of a local cause. The group has gained territory, cash and recruits primarily because of the rage and rebellion of the Sunnis of Iraq and Syria, who believe they must fight the Shiites to secure their own survival and strength. The reality is that that Sunni cause is going to endure for some time. The United States has been successful in its tactical battles against ISIS and has managed to push the group back from many of its gains in Iraq. But the Sunnis of the region will remain in rebellion and the Sunni-dominated areas will remain in turmoil -- chaos that ISIS will be able to capitalize on this chaos. In the long run, ISIS might very well find that its greatest foes lie within its so-called Caliphate. The few reports that are emerging from areas controlled by ISIS suggest that, unsurprisingly, people do not like living under a brutal, theocratic dictatorship. They live in fear, and even those who chose it as an alternative to Shiite rule are growing disenchanted. In this respect, ISIS is like other radical Islamic groups, such as the Taliban -- they have an allure in the abstract, but once they are actually governing in their medieval, barbarous manner, the allure fades and the disenchantment builds. The result is ever-increasing repression. Remember, no one has ever voted ISIS into power anywhere. The group simply slaughters its way to control. Of course, one of the big questions has been : Is ISIS a threat to the West ?. The group's leaders declare that it is. But their ambitions appear to be mostly centered on their Arab enemies, on building a caliphate in Iraq and Syria. They understand, of course, that to be Terror Group No. 1, they must battle the country that is the world's No. 1 power -- the United States. With that in mind, they seek such a confrontation and hope that the United States will come to the Middle East and fight them on their terms, on their terrain. Still, while they are opportunists, and they ask and hope that their followers act in America, their main focus is not to come here -- they want Americans to go there. Yet no matter how one rates the level of the threat ISIS poses, the group has changed the nature of terror. The leaders of ISIS have recognized that above all, they are a messaging machine, which in turn becomes a recruitment machine. This means that the key is not what happens on the ground, but on the airwaves and in the bits and bytes of the Internet. And ISIS does this better than anyone before them because while their gruesome videos would seem a repulsive turn-off -- and are to most -- they still work on the web. The shock and awe they produce makes them go viral, and thus are seen by tens of millions. That ensures that these videos attract those utterly alienated young men -- a few thousand among the world's 1.6 billion Muslims -- who seek revenge, glory and gore. Unfortunately, as long as those young Muslim men, scattered across the globe, are attracted to ISIS and stream to its cause, the group presents the world with a danger that is impossible to fully assess but is one that grows by the month.
( CNN ) The underwater search area for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 looks set to double in size. Teams are scouring the depths of a remote part of the southern Indian Ocean for the remains of the passenger jet that disappeared more than a year ago with 239 people on board. So far, they've covered about 60 % of the priority search zone without reporting any trace of the airliner. Families of passengers and crew members still have no answers about what happened to their loved ones. If the searchers haven't found anything by the time they've covered the entire 60,000-square-kilometer priority zone, the search will stretch into a new equally vast area, government officials from Malaysia, Australia and China announced Thursday. ``Ministers remain committed to bring closure and some peace to the families and loved ones of those on board Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370,'' the three countries said in a joint statement. The search of the current priority zone is expected to be completed in May. Covering the new zone could take as long as a year. At that point, ``all high probability search areas would have been covered,'' the governments said Thursday. The size of the doubled search area, the equivalent of more than 46,000 square miles, would be bigger than the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. Flight 370 vanished after taking off from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on March 8, 2014, bound for Beijing. Officials are still trying to figure out why it veered dramatically off course over the sea between Malaysia and Vietnam and where exactly it ended up. An international team of experts used satellite data to calculate that the plane eventually went down in the southern Indian Ocean, far off the coast of Western Australia. The people on board the Boeing 777 came from various nations, but the majority were Chinese. CNN's Elizabeth Joseph contributed to this report.
( CNN ) In July of 2013, the oldest of Jesus relics stories rose again when Turkish archaeologists discovered a stone chest in a 1,350-year-old church that appeared to contain a piece of Jesus' cross. ``We have found a holy thing in a chest. It is a piece of a cross,'' said excavation team leader Gülgün Köroğlu, an art historian and archaeologist. At the time, she thought the chest served as a symbolic coffin for a holy person's relics -- ones connected to Jesus' crucifixion. And then, silence. The latest relic of the cross on which Jesus had died stalled out because, as Köroğlu later said, the box that had contained allegedly holy objects was now -- mysteriously -- empty. The latest episode of the ``true cross,'' a powerful identifier for the faith of more than two billion people, is symbolic of the pitfalls in the hunt for Jesus relics. To say something smacks of the ``true cross'' can mean it's a matter of divine certainty or of utter fraud. Could fragments of the true cross of Jesus really be among us today ? Could fragments of a tree survive millennia ? Or are they fragments of forgery that speak to our need to believe ?. The true cross phenomenon begins with Emperor Constantine, the first Roman emperor to convert to Christianity. He sent his mother Saint Helena ( c. 246-330 CE ) to find Jesus objects in the Holy Land. When Helena traveled to Jerusalem in 326 CE the city was still suffering the destruction caused by the last Jewish War in 132-35 CE. After defeating Israel, Roman Emperor Hadrian built a pagan temple over Jesus's tomb near Calvary -- a grave insult to the new religion. Helena ordered this pagan temple torn down and began to dig beneath it to find relics related to Jesus. Her workers found three different crosses -- a discovery directly relating to the Gospels, which tell us that Jesus was crucified along with two criminals. The historian Rufinus ( c. 340-410 ) reveals that in order to discern which cross was Jesus', Helena had a dying local woman brought to the site. The ill woman touched two of the crosses, but nothing happened. Then she touched the third -- and she recovered. The true cross of Jesus had been revealed. Helena carved it up, leaving some of it in Jerusalem and transporting a chunk to Europe where it seemingly multiplied, so much so that Protestant reformer John Calvin said :''.. if all the pieces that could be found were collected together, they would make a big ship-load. Yet the Gospel testifies that a single man was able to carry it.''. But was Calvin exaggerating to support his own reforms to Catholicism ? How could we ever know what the true cross was made of, or looked like, since neither the Gospels -- nor the Romans -- bothered to tell us ?. Enter science. In 1870, French architect Charles Rohault de Fleury catalogued all known fragments of the true cross. He determined the Jesus cross weighed 165 pounds, was three or four meters high, with a cross beam two meters wide. If all these bits of the cross were cobbled together, he reckoned, they wouldn't amount to a third of the cross on which Jesus died. And based on the fragments he was allowed to examine by microscope, de Fleury concluded the true cross was made of pine wood. Later, four cross particles were also microscopically examined -- part of ten pieces of the true cross, accompanied by documentary proofs from Byzantine emperors. These fragments came from grand European churches : Santa Croce in Rome, Notre Dame in Paris, and the Cathedrals of Pisa and Florence. But scientists discovered that they were all made of olive wood. So now the question became : Was the cross of Jesus made of olive wood or pine ?. One of the perplexing realities for archaeologists is a lack of residual wood from the massive record of Roman crucifixion. Despite the fact the Romans killed tens of thousands of people through crucifixion -- and as many as 500 a day during the siege of Jerusalem from 66-70 CE -- the only piece of evidence connected to this terrible punishment was discovered in 1968, when archaeologists found the heel bone of a crucified man with the nail still intact. In the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, Israel Hershkovitz, who teaches anatomy and archaeology at Tel Aviv University, said that the heel bone of the crucified man was found in a Jewish burial tomb in a northern suburb of Jerusalem, near Golgotha -- the hill where the Romans crucified people. The man, whose ossuary, or burial box, identified him as Yehohanan, was in his mid 20s when he died on the cross. His good teeth and lack of heavy musculature meant that he most likely came from a wealthy family, for most crucifixion victims were far too humble to wind up in tombs -- save for Jesus, who was put in one by the wealthy Joseph of Arimathea. Others buried in the same tomb as Yehohanan had connections to the Temple, so it's possible that he was killed by the Romans for some political transgression. Yehohanan was cut down from the cross with a 4.5-inch nail still in his right heel bone, and with part of a board still attached to the head of the nail. Hershkovitz believes that the relative shortness of the length of the nail reveals much about Roman crucifixion methods. ``The nail was too short ( to go through ) two heel bones, so sure enough each foot was hammered separately to the cross.''. Hershkovitz is convinced that crosses were not made from olive trees because the people depended on the olive tree for food and wouldn't be slashing them down to make crosses. More importantly, for the purpose at hand, they wouldn't be suitable because of the structure of the tree itself. Olive trees don't grow tall and straight, it branches everywhere, and there are a lot of holes in the wood, making it difficult to support the nails against the weight of the victim. ``The olive tree is the least appropriate tree. We have different type of local oaks that better serve the purpose.''. Today there are even more ``true cross'' fragments on display around the world : on Mount Athos, in Rome, in Brussels, in Venice, in Ghent, in Paris, in Spain, in Serbia -- and even in Boalsburg, Pennsylvania, where a fragment of the true cross came along as part of the family chapel imported there and rebuilt by Theodore Boal for his French bride. If you want your own sliver of the cross on which Jesus died, eBay offers several choices -- with some having original wax seals preserving ``integrity'' and some having documents attesting to their authenticity. Mark Goodacre, a professor at Duke University's Department of Religion, says that this continued emphasis on the genuineness of true cross fragments is often at the expense of the cross's meaning. ``The thing about the cross is you've always got to remember that it's about the person who hung there, the wood itself in the end is just the instrument of torture.''. Michael McKinley is co-author, with David Gibson, of ``Finding Jesus : Faith. Fact. Forgery. : Six Holy Objects That Tell the Remarkable Story of the Gospels.''
( CNN ) About 150,000 years ago -- give or take 20,000 -- a guy fell into a well. Last month he made science history. The Altamura Man became the oldest Neanderthal to have his DNA extracted by researchers. It took them more than 20 years to get around to doing it. Scientists in southern Italy have known about him since 1993, when spelunkers spied his skull staring blankly back at them from its nook in the Lamalunga cave, deep under the town of Altamura. The cave explorers told researchers at the University of Bari what they'd found, according to their report published in March in the Journal of Human Evolution and Phys.org. Altamura Man's intact skull and jumbled pile of bones made for a great specimen, but they were wedged into a panoply of stalactites and stony globules deposited by water dripping over them for tens of thousands of years. Researchers decided not to rescue the bones for fear that trying to ease them out of the cave's calcified grip would shatter them and ruin Altamura Man. So, they left him forever a cave man. Calcite pebbles line the Neanderthal's eye sockets, nose bone and an upper jaw like a hundred decorative piercings. Analysis of the calcite has shown the bones to be 128,000 to 187,000 years old. Scientists believe Altamura Man wound up in the cave at least that long ago after falling into a prehistoric well, then died in the caverns at its bottom of thirst or hunger. Recently, researchers made an exception, and toted off a chip from his right shoulder blade to the lab. Metrics taken of his skeleton confirm Altamura Man was a Homo neanderthalensis. He will spend perhaps endless eons glaring silently out of his cranny in the world's most secluded spot, or, as Altamura's archeological museum describes it, ``in the corner of a small cavity situated between the ground and the back wall.''. The scientists hope they will be able to sequence his DNA, to find out more about the evolution of all hominids -- including us. And to hear some of Altamura Man's story about life in Neanderthals' early days in Europe, before he happened to stumble into that darned hole.
( CNN ) The justices of the Supreme Court practice politics as much as law -- and that will be clearer than ever when the issue of same-sex marriage comes before the court on Tuesday. Public opinion on same-sex marriage has turned upside down since the Supreme Judicial Court in Massachusetts first legalized the practice in 2003. Overwhelming opposition has turned into substantial majority support, especially among young people of all political persuasions. Even the name of the issue has changed -- to marriage equality. Of course, the Constitution has not changed since 2003, a point that will surely be made by such opponents of same-sex marriage as Justice Antonin Scalia. To originalists like Scalia -- those who believe the Constitution should be interpreted only as it was originally understood by the framers -- the idea of a constitutional right to same-sex marriage is anathema. To them, the Constitution means only what it meant to those who wrote it -- and James Madison ( or the authors of the 14th Amendment, just after the Civil War ) never gave a thought to whether they were granting gay people the right to marry. But the Supreme Court has always been about a lot more than the intentions of the framers. And public opinion is just one of the extrajudicial factors that the justices sometimes take into consideration. In 1954, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that public schools could no longer segregate students by race, even though the authors of the 14th Amendment clearly considered segregated schools to be permissible. Chief Justice Earl Warren, who wrote the opinion in Brown v. Board of Education, recognized that the world had changed, especially in light of the Cold War. Warren knew that segregated schools damaged the United States' reputation in the contest for hearts and minds around the world, and he steered the court accordingly. Warren's motives had nothing to do with the framers' intentions, and little to do with the words of the Constitution itself, but these kinds of motivations have been common throughout the history of the Supreme Court. There are risks, of course, when the justices are guided by more than the text and history of the Constitution. Like everyone else, the justices have imperfect instincts when it comes to measuring public attitudes. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is a fervent supporter of abortion rights for women, but she has expressed reservations about the court's decision in Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that required all 50 states to legalize abortion. She has argued that the court interrupted a political process for legalization that was already underway, and that the case ignited a backlash that wound up hurting the cause of abortion rights. Her position is debatable on several scores. Abortion rights were not ascendant everywhere in the'70s, and opponents were already well mobilized. But Ginsburg's misgivings about Roe have served as an important backdrop to the Supreme Court's consideration of same-sex marriage. Still, when it comes to Supreme Court decisions, it is usually safe to bet that a majority of the justices will come down on the side favored by most of the public. In any case, as we head into the argument, it looks like most of the justices have already made up their minds. After the court decided United States v. Windsor in 2013, which invalidated most of the 1996 law known as the Defense of Marriage Act, more than a dozen federal district courts around the county said the reasoning of that case required the legalization of same-sex marriage. These judges allowed these marriages to begin taking place around the country. Supporters of the existing laws went to the Supreme Court and asked for stays of the lower court rulings, because the justices themselves had not yet permitted the marriages to take place. But in each case, the Supreme Court denied the stays and allowed same-sex marriages to proceed -- those marriages are now legal in 37 states and the District of Columbia. In a brief dissenting opinion from the failure to grant the stays, Justice Clarence Thomas suggested the issue had already been settled in the minds of his colleagues. ``This acquiescence -LSB- in allowing marriages to proceed -RSB- may well be seen as a signal of the court's intended resolution of that question,'' Thomas wrote. ``This is not the proper way to discharge our.. responsibilities.''. But Thomas only drew Scalia to join his dissent, suggesting that even fellow conservatives Chief Justice John Roberts and Samuel Alito saw the writing on the wall. In any case, at oral argument, we'll get a clue what the justices are thinking about the issue. But we already know that their decision, like so many in the court's history, will be based on a great deal more than the text of the Constitution.
( CNN ) It's a girls' universe. On Wednesday, DC Entertainment, Warner Bros. and Mattel announced a partnership to launch DC Super Hero Girls, featuring familiar superheroes and supervillains as ``relatable teens,'' according to a press release. ( Like CNN, DC and Warner Bros. are units of Time Warner. ). The characters involved include Wonder Woman, Supergirl, Batgirl, Harley Quinn and Poison Ivy, among others. Though initial reaction on social media appeared favorable -- ``My daughter will be a big fan I think,'' wrote NerdGallagher -- praise wasn't universal. ``Just let us into the old universes !'' tweeted Kathleen E. Kennedy. And Jenna Busch, writing for Legion of Leia, was concerned the initiative was another way of keeping girls separate. ``Targeting them as `for girls only' is just another way to be exclusive,'' she wrote. ``Look, I appreciate the effort, but drawing yet another line between men and women is not the way to go. So, where are you going to put these products in Target ? On the pink side of the toy section or the blue side ?''. DC Super Hero Girls is aimed at girls ages 6-12 and will include online content, toys, books and TV specials. Mattel is the toy licensee and Random House Books for Young Readers will publish books based on the franchise. The first elements will roll out in the fall.
( CNN ) The cover-up is often worse than the crime. Henry Louis Gates stands accused of scrubbing part of a segment in his PBS documentary series ``Finding Your Roots'' because the actor Ben Affleck put pressure on him. Affleck's concern was that the segment would have aired his family's dirty laundry, which includes a slaveholding ancestor, Benjamin Cole. Affleck said, in a statement posted on Facebook, that he ``didn't want any television show about my family to include a guy who owned slaves. I was embarrassed.'' And Gates later explained that he subbed that part of the segment for another that made for more ``compelling television.''. But providing a window into the importance of slavery's past to America's present should never just be about what makes for good television. Gates missed an opportunity. And Affleck's initial reluctance to acknowledge his truth ( an impulse, he said on Facebook, he regrets ) is surprising. Last month, Affleck lent his star power to support continued foreign assistance for the Democratic Republic of Congo by testifying before Congress. He isn't shy about aligning himself with causes and issues. What more could he do if his instinct is also to tackle issues closer to home : the legacy of slavery in his own family tree and how it is possible -- necessary -- to reject the racism passed through generations even today. He should have shown the courage to stay in an uncomfortable place. What a teachable moment for the country. In any case, why did he agree to do a television show if he was concerned about what might be discovered ? He could have paid a genealogist to uncover his ancestry, if privacy was what he wanted. The irony here is that none of this would have ever been found out if Sony's emails had not been hacked and if Gates hadn't written to Michael Lynton, CEO of Sony Entertainment, for advice. In the leaked exchange, Lynton advised : ``I would take it out if no one knows, but if it gets out that you are editing the material based on this kind of sensitivity then it gets tricky.'' Gates acknowledges that to delete the segment at the request of a guest ``would be a violation of PBS rules.'' Then he does it anyway. Gates, however, denies doing this. After the story came to light, he released a statement saying that he ``maintained editorial control'' and decided what made ``for the most compelling program.'' For Affleck's ``Finding Your Roots'' segment, he substituted a Revolutionary War ancestor instead of the slave-owning one. If Gates thought there was no need for the slavery segment because it didn't make for good television, there would have been no need to consult with Lynton ; Gates could have given Affleck what he wanted because he made the assessment of how strong Affleck's story was. The original script, reprinted on Gawker and elsewhere, makes it clear, however, that the slave-owner angle makes for better television. Here are some excerpts :. Gates sets up the segment describing Benjamin Cole as living in Savannah, Georgia. Affleck responds that he has a house in Savannah. Gates says ``Really ?'' and asks whether he knew he had roots there. Affleck says he had no idea he had any Southern roots at all. Then the voice-over lowers the boom : ``We wanted to see if we could learn how Ben's ancestor felt about ( slavery ).'' Gates shows the slave schedule of the 1850 Census to Affleck, who says, ``There's Benjamin Cole, owned 25 slaves.''. Affleck says, ``It gives me a kind of sagging feeling to see, uh, a biological relationship to that. But you know, there it is, part of our history.'' Gates then says : ``But consider the irony, in your family line. Your mom went back fighting for the rights of black people in Mississippi, 100 years later. That's amazing.'' Affleck then observes : ``Indeed, people like my mother and many others who have made a much better America than the one that they were handed.''. What a great line. What a great story. And indeed when a public figure -- a celebrity -- chooses to confront the past like this, instead of ignoring it, he can provide a powerful example to a country that struggles daily with the roots of racism in its present. This is the kind of enlightened approach Gates and PBS should have been interested in facilitating. White Americans' lack of comfort in talking about slavery, race and the places in our society where racism continues to fester is at the heart of why even with a black president, we are still, as a country, far from post-racial. Affleck's segment had the potential to continue an important dialogue -- but the brand management part of Affleck won, and the rest is history. The fallout continues. Gates has to deal with PBS and WNET's internal review. He should not walk away without consequences. If you're going to run with the megastars, you need to have mega-ethics.
( CNN ) A white police officer claims he feared for his life and is justified in killing an unarmed black man. A police chief supports the police officer, who is ultimately exonerated, and a predominantly black community seethes with rage because it knows that an injustice was done. We've seen this movie before. Spoiler Alert : Cop gets away with it. Routine stops for walking in the middle of the street or driving with a broken taillight -- these should not result in anyone's death. But time and again it ends with a black man dead in the street and the community has no recourse. This time the stage was set in North Charleston, South Carolina, a city of about 100,000 people. Walter Scott was stopped by Officer Michael Slager for a broken taillight, and within minutes Scott was dead. According to the incident report, Slager said : ``Shots fired, and the subject is down. He took my Taser.'' His attorney at the time, David Aylor, said that Slager ``felt threatened and reached for his department-issued firearm and fired his weapon.''. But then came the video. We watched in horror as we saw Slager shoot Scott in the back multiple times. Then we saw Slager pick up something from one location and place it near Scott's lifeless body. On Tuesday, the officer was arrested on murder charges. North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters, ``I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw.'' Apparently so was Slager's attorney, who announced after the video was made public that he was no longer representing the officer. After the video became public, the officials in North Charleston deftly handled the situation. However, it was an easy case. There is no plausible evidence that Slager feared for his life when Scott is seen running away. In Ferguson, the video we have in the death of Michael Brown is of press conferences with police Chief Tom Jackson, who refused to release the police officer's name, but did release a video that appeared to show Michael Brown stealing cigars. We have the video of the military weapons deployed by the police in Ferguson that were trained on its residents and the press. The world seethed. North Charleston's police force is about 80 % white, with a population of 47 % black and 37 % white in the city. Ferguson's police force is 94 % white ( only three of the 53 police officers are black ), and the city is 67 % black and 29 % white. Both North Charleston and Ferguson have police forces that are not representative of the population they serve, yet because of a video North Charleston's police force got in front of the story. I'm not sure North Charleston gets here without learning something from the mistakes of Ferguson. I have heard many commentators say the North Charleston shooting doesn't have anything to do with race. I don't buy it. I wonder how many whites in North Charleston with broken taillights get pulled over ? Being pulled over for driving while black is a well-known phenomenon, which I discuss in my ``Critical Race Theory'' casebook. Racial profiling by Slager could have been the catalyst for Scott being pulled over in the first place. Yes, the North Charleston officials behaved differently than the officials in Ferguson. I don't think it's because race had nothing to do with it. It is that perhaps the North Charleston officials are better than those in Ferguson when it comes to racially charged situations -- especially given the instructive fallout from Brown's shooting. And, of course, the video. It remains to be seen whether Slager will be convicted of murder. Strange things can happen in a jury room. Recall how the Rodney King videotape allowed a Simi Valley, California, jury to acquit the Los Angeles police officers, but a federal jury later convicted the officers of violating King's civil rights. What a video proves can sometimes be in the eye of the beholder.
( CNN ) The other day, I searched through hundreds of photos hoping to find a starting point to write this article. Looking through old photos is usually an enjoyable experience -- coming across a wedding or remembrances of happy times with family and friends. On this occasion, however, I found myself flipping through images from a devastating time we dearly wish had never happened but can not afford to forget. White sand beaches stained with black sludge, oil-choked waterways and wildlife, shuttered businesses, and front-lawn signs pleading for justice and help. Five years after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster that killed 11 people, devastated livelihoods and wreaked havoc on the already fragile natural resources of the Gulf of Mexico region, it's time to ask ourselves : What have we learned ? And what are we willing to do make sure it doesn't happen again ?. I spent much of 2010 in the Gulf, traveling through the communities, spending time with the people and witnessing the impact of this environmental catastrophe. Five years later, I returned to see what has changed and what has remained the same. First, it's important to understand that the principle ``out of sight, out of mind'' doesn't apply in the communities of Gulf Coast states. The BP oil spill's legacy continues to haunt this region like a recurring cancer. On this most recent trip, I saw the ghostly remains of entire islands virtually swallowed up by the oil, and I learned about oystermen and fishermen whose livelihoods are still crippled by what happened five years ago. Imagining Daddy : A rig worker's daughter and her dreams. Of course, that's not to say progress hasn't been made. Community groups and dedicated organizations have worked ceaselessly to restore and repair not only the physical environment, but also the way of life. This work is critical, and it deserves our attention and additional resources to continue to progress. But make no mistake : Though a kind of normalcy has returned to the Gulf region and important progress has been made, the oil is still there. What we do and don't know about the oil spill. A recent study from Florida State University estimates that up to 10 million gallons of that oil is still on the seafloor of the Gulf. ( BP disputes the study ). Everything is not ``back to normal.''. So far, BP has spent more than $ 14 billion on cleanup, and despite its assurances that everything is recovering, we witnessed a crew on a beach in Barataria Bay ( off Louisiana ) digging up oily sand. Not what I would call recovered. And while this kind of reflection is rarely pleasant, it is critical in order to avoid another tragedy on the scale of the BP spill, or potentially much worse. It's important to note that for areas like the Gulf, which are already affected by drilling, many of the common-sense safety reforms called for by the National Commission on the oil spill in January 2011 have yet to be implemented. And yet, early this year, the Obama administration proposed a five-year offshore oil and gas drilling plan that, in addition to new areas in the Gulf, would open the southeast Atlantic Coast from Virginia to Georgia, as well as the majority of the wild Arctic to offshore oil and gas drilling. In the case of the Arctic, one of the last pristine ocean habitats, oil companies have to admit that they aren't prepared to safeguard against the disasters that may take place if the plan is allowed to move forward. Imagine what would happen if an oil spill occurred in a region where what little technology we have, like oil booms and controlled burns, is useless in the land of floating icebergs and catastrophic storms. In the case of the Atlantic Seaboard, the increase in severe storms and rise in sea level, as well as what is at stake from an ecological standpoint, don't paint a more optimistic picture. We have a simple choice : Do we continue to make the same mistakes with a ``business as usual'' approach, or do we change the way we manage and use the resources the Earth provides us ? I'm not saying the path forward is easy. It's not, but this is a challenge we need to embrace. Some solutions are relatively straightforward -- holding industry and our government responsible for human and environmental safety is certainly at the top of this list. Taking the time and effort to understand our natural resources before we exploit them is another. Despite its importance to navigation, fishing, oil and gas development, and maritime safety, our understanding of how the Gulf system works remains extremely limited. Independent research free of corporate and government influence in the Gulf of Mexico is critical. Projects like habitat mapping can result in countless ecological and economic benefits, such as improved assessments of fishery health, a baseline for tracking success of billions of dollars in restoration efforts, an essential foundation for modeling and monitoring the Gulf ecosystem, and a planning tool for better managing one of the hardest-working bodies of water in the world. And, perhaps our biggest and most important challenge : We must continue to eliminate our dependence on fossil fuels by developing sustainable energy solutions, including solar and wind power, and the sustainable jobs and opportunities that follow the kind of pioneering innovation that makes America such a great country. Not long after the spill began, I was speaking to a group of elementary school students with my environmental education nonprofit EarthEcho International. The students were all horrified and upset by what was happening in the Gulf. At the end of a question-and-answer session, I asked them, ``Who is going to clean up this mess ?''. All of them raised their hands and said in somewhat subdued unison, ``We will.''. I've told this story in the intervening years, and it's always given me a sense of hope. Thinking of those young children now also steels my resolve to make sure they don't have to deliver on that promise. The following local and national coalitions and organizations offer great starting points to become involved in the movement to restore the Gulf and its communities, and to make sure we take steps to prevent history from repeating itself : The Gulf Future Coalition, Ocean Conservancy, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the National Wildlife Federation.
( CNN ) Launching rockets is a complicated thing. Landing them upright on a platform floating in the ocean ? Well, that's never been done before. SpaceX, the private space exploration company founded by billionaire Elon Musk, hopes to give it a try. But weather forced it to scrub Monday's plan to launch. SpaceX said on Twitter that Tuesday at 4:10 p.m. ET will be the next opportunity for the company to launch a two-stage Falcon 9 rocket carrying an uncrewed cargo spacecraft called Dragon on a flight from Cape Canaveral, Florida, to the International Space Station. That will be the easy part. After the launch, SpaceX will try to guide the bottom stage of the rocket upright onto a platform, or what it calls an autonomous spaceport drone ship, in the Atlantic Ocean off Florida. Usually booster rockets burn up in Earth's atmosphere or, like NASA's space shuttle boosters, they fall back into the ocean. So why try to land one ?. Musk wants to cut costs. On his company's website, he says that if anyone can figure out how to ``reuse rockets just like airplanes, the cost of access to space will be reduced by as much as a factor of a hundred.''. SpaceX tried to land a Falcon 9 on the drone ship in January, but the rocket hit at an angle and exploded. The company has previously said the odds of a successful landing are about 50 %. If you want to see how it goes, it will post photos online throughout the mission and will put video on YouTube. And if the landing doesn't work ? SpaceX says it will keep trying and, after it masters landing at sea, hopes to someday land rockets on the ground. What about the rest of the rocket and the Dragon ? The smaller, top part of the rocket will carry the Dragon into orbit and then break away from the cargo ship and burn up in Earth's atmosphere. The Dragon will dock with the space station a couple of days after launch to deliver more than 4,300 pounds ( 1,950 kilograms ) of supplies, including research equipment and ISSpresso, an espresso maker that astronauts can use to make coffee and tea. The space station crew will spend about five weeks unpacking the Dragon. They'll then stuff it with over 3,000 pounds of science experiments, trash and other stuff to send back to Earth. When they're done, Dragon will leave the space station and mission controllers will guide it to splashdown in the Pacific Ocean off California. This is the sixth SpaceX mission to the International Space Station. The company was the first private space contractor to dock with the station. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A top al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula leader -- who a few years ago was in a U.S. detention facility -- was among five killed in an airstrike in Yemen, the terror group said, showing the organization is vulnerable even as Yemen appears close to civil war. Ibrahim al-Rubaish died Monday night in what AQAP's media wing, Al-Malahem Media, called a ``crusader airstrike.'' The Al-Malahem Media obituary characterized al-Rubaish as a religious scholar and combat commander. A Yemeni Defense Ministry official and two Yemeni national security officials not authorized to speak on record confirmed that al-Rubaish had been killed, but could not specify how he died. Al-Rubaish was once held by the U.S. government at its detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. In fact, he was among a number of detainees who sued the administration of then-President George W. Bush to challenge the legality of their confinement in Gitmo. He was eventually released as part of Saudi Arabia's program for rehabilitating jihadist terrorists, a program that U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Alabama, characterized as ``a failure.'' In December 2009, Sessions listed al-Rubaish among those on the virtual'' `Who's Who' of al Qaeda terrorists on the Arabian peninsula.. who have either graduated or escaped from the program en route to terrorist acts.''. The United States has been active in Yemen, working closely with governments there to go after AQAP leaders like al-Rubaish. While it was not immediately clear how he died, drone strikes have killed many other members of the terrorist group. Yemen, however, has been in disarray since Houthi rebels began asserting themselves last year. The Shiite minority group even managed to take over the capital of Sanaa and, in January, force out Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi -- who had been a close U.S. ally in its anti-terror fight. Hadi still claims he is Yemen's legitimate leader, and he is working with a Saudi-led military coalition to target Houthis and supporters of former President Ali Abdullah Saleh. Meanwhile, Yemen has been awash in violence and chaos -- which in some ways has been good for groups such as AQAP. A prison break earlier this month freed 270 prisoners, including some senior AQAP figures, according to a senior Defense Ministry official, and the United States pulled the last of its special operations forces out of Yemen last month, which some say makes things easier for AQAP. CNN's Anas Hamdan and Merieme Arif contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Seven minutes after an Aurora, Colorado, theatergoer called 911 to report a massacre in progress, suspect James Holmes surrendered to police, a dozen dead bodies allegedly in his wake. On Monday, jurors will thoroughly examine those seven minutes in a trial that experts say could last months. The prosecution has said it will seek the death penalty. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. Jurors will also be asked to consider events that occurred before and after the July 20, 2012, shooting -- namely, evidence that appears to show Holmes planned his attack, even going so far as to buy his movie ticket 12 days before, along with police allegations that officers who arrived to search Holmes' apartment had to navigate booby traps incorporating gasoline and grenades. According to police, Holmes attended the midnight showing of ``The Dark Knight Rises'' at the Century Aurora 16 Multiplex Theater but left through a rear door alongside the movie screen, propping it open behind him. Holmes returned in ``head-to-toe protective gear,'' including a gas mask, about 18 minutes into the movie, police said, and threw two tear gas canisters into the theater before opening fire with an AR-15 rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun and at least one.40 - caliber handgun. The attack killed 12 people and wounded another 70, a level of violence not seen in Colorado since the Columbine High School shooting. Five days later, authorities discovered a package in a University of Colorado-Denver mail room that police say Holmes apparently sent. Colorado authorities had no previous contact with Holmes, outside of a 2011 speeding summons, and he graduated in 2010 from the University of California, Riverside, with highest honors and a bachelor's degree in neuroscience. He enrolled as a doctoral candidate in the University of Colorado School of Medicine's neuroscience program in 2011 but dropped out the following year without providing a reason, according to a university spokeswoman. Holmes faces 165 counts, including murder and attempted murder charges, but there have already been some notable legal battles in the run-up to the actual trial. In March 2013, Holmes offered to plead guilty so he could avoid the death penalty, a deal the district attorney declined. A few months later, a judge ruled that Holmes had to be restrained during the trial, via a hidden harness anchored to the floor. The defense filed an objection, conceding that Holmes exacted the violence but blaming his actions on mental illness. ``Mr. Holmes suffers from a severe mental illness and was in the throes of a psychotic episode when he committed the acts that resulted in the tragic loss of life and injuries sustained by movie goers on July 20, 2012,'' the motion said. Judge Carlos Samour last year ordered Holmes to submit to an additional sanity exam, saying that the previous test, conducted in 2013 at the Colorado Mental Health Institute at Pueblo, was ``incomplete and inadequate.''. Jury selection began in January, and after a four-month process, 12 jurors and alternates, composed of 19 women and five men, were selected.
Aden, Yemen ( CNN ) It didn't look like much, but we'd been told it was typical of the kind of craft ferrying the route between Djibouti and Aden. Better, everyone advised, to be low key, even if low key meant faded lights and three water pumps chugging at all times. The wooden vessel was called Mecca -- after the holy city. We were told we'd be at the port in Aden by the next morning, but as the hours ticked by it soon became apparent that that was wildly optimistic. Morning came and we were still only halfway there. We'd been given a secure route, charted for us by the Djiboutian Coast Guard. It meant hugging the coastline, trying to stay as much as possible out of the deeper water in the middle of the Gulf of Aden where the world's navies seemed to be squaring off. It was almost double the distance of the direct route. Add to that a strong current -- and stomach-churning seas -- and it felt like we would spend an eternity on board. After our second sunset, we were finally close enough for my phone to ping with a Yemeni welcome message. However, we couldn't risk arriving at night ; even getting too close to shore would risk being mistaken for a re-supply vessel and potentially taking a Saudi hit. The captain slowed the boat to a crawl so the remaining miles would stretch until daybreak. Finally, morning came. It was time to go into town to see what life was like for the people of Aden. We weren't really sure what to expect but we did know we couldn't stay for long. From the moment we stepped through the gates of the port, we were met by noise and desperation, shoving and shouting. ``Where are you going ?'' ``I'll pay, I'll pay'' ``Are you here to take the Americans ?''. I shouted back that we'd return soon. We had just five hours on the ground and we needed to visit the hospital, the shuttered markets, the frontlines. There was so much we needed to see. The crowds clustered around our camera lens, asking ``Why ?'' ``Why is this happening ?'' ``Why hasn't it stopped ?''. It felt like no time had passed before we were told we had to go. The shelling had begun. We'd been hearing pops of sniper fire all day but now we could hear rounds of automatic weapons and they were getting louder. As we arrived back at port, we found we weren't leaving alone. After waiting at port, praying a passing ship would dock, ours had become an unexpected lifeline for some of the families caught in the fighting. The Harbor-Master asked if we could take 60 refugees. It didn't feel like the answer could be anything but yes. What we didn't realize until it was too late was that the refugees were being charged $ 300 a person : An ``exit fee.'' Those who didn't have the money were pushed back behind the wrought iron gates of the port. Those that did shared our day-and-a-half trip home. As the shores of Djibouti grew closer, you could see the uncertainty begin to take over. Many of them had come from comfortable lives, before the war shattered them. They had left homes that once hummed with air conditioners and televisions. Would the camps have TVs, they asked. No, they wouldn't, I said. What I didn't say was that they'd be lucky to have electricity. But woven amid the uncertainty was the relief of escape. Some of the refugees took over our ship's galley -- the kitchen. They'd found a former chef amongst their number who commandeered the store cupboard, sending out a pick and mix of heaped trays. We got tuna spaghetti and more Turkish coffee than our cameraman Byron could possibly drink. Because we'd brought refugees back with us, we were asked by the Djibouti Coast Guard to dock in the country's north, in Obok, so they could be given the proper status while they wait to see what happens back home. The immigration officials were -- understandably -- a little bemused by our presence amongst a boatload of people fleeing Yemen, but to their credit they decided the important thing was that these families were now safe. From there Djibouti Port was just a few hours away, hours that stretched into infinity for the families ringing my phone to check that their loved ones had made it into harbor. Over the last few hours, people had shyly come up to ask if they could borrow our phone to tell their families they were safe. Now a deluge of anxious parents, siblings and partners flooded my ear, asking how it could possibly be that we weren't yet on dry land. But eventually we were, and as we watched the Djiboutian officials unload what remained of people's belongings onto shore, it was a reminder that these were the lucky ones. Thousands more are still waiting back in Yemen, hoping they too will reach a safe port.
( CNN ) I would have done anything to get to Europe. It was worth the risk, the bad treatment and the fear, hard as that may be to believe. Simply put, I have a better life now than I did before. But my journey across the Mediterranean, like those of thousands of other migrants, wasn't easy. Here's my story. It all started late last year when I lost my job in Dubai. My work visa had expired, and I had nowhere else to go. I'm Syrian, and returning to Syria wasn't an option -- going back means you either have to kill or be killed. But Syrians don't need visas to get into Turkey, so Turkey it was. I arrived in the country in December with an old dream in my mind : reaching Europe. While in Istanbul, I discovered many Facebook pages about illegal smuggling from Turkey to Italy by sea. All of them mentioned that Mersin, a port city on the southern border, was the jump off point, so I made my way there. I met a Syrian guy in a hotel in Mersin who had already paid money to one smuggler and was planning to depart within a few days. He told me his smuggler was a decent man with a great reputation. Reputation : It was a funny thing to hear for the first time, the thought that these people, who I always considered to be little more than criminals, were concerned about what people thought of them. But why wouldn't they be ? It's a long-term business, and the Syrian conflict isn't ending anytime soon. So I decided to meet the guy. We spoke about terms of payment and agreed on a fee of $ 6,500. Some of the money would be deposited into an insurance company, with the usual transaction fees. When I reached Italy the money would be released to the smuggler -- or, if I changed my mind, I'd be able to get some of it back. ``Be ready all day, every day for the next few days, because you might receive the call to go,'' the smuggler told me. One evening a few days later, I got the call and my journey began. They gathered 100 men and women in five buses and drove us to the smuggling point. It was far from Mersin. We walked for 30 minutes, through rough terrain and orange farms near the beach, in darkness to avoid detection by police. The idea was to take us in three small boats to the main ship. I still remember an old lady, barely able to walk, with her two sons, marching along as fast as they could to try to reach the boats. They were told that if they didn't walk faster, the boat would leave without them. I asked myself so many time what could possibly drive a normal person to put himself and his family in this kind of danger. I decided that anyone with a past but no future was capable of doing crazy things. Finally we reached the boat. It was just as the smuggler described. For three days we waited in the boat for two other parties of 100 people to join us before departing. We were in the middle of the Mediterranean, far enough away from the surrounding countries to be in international waters. On the fourth day we started our journey with a mix of excitement and fear -- fear that this madness often ends in tragedy, ends with us as numbers piled on top of all the other unfortunate, nameless numbers who never made it to the other side. But there was no going back -- it's a one-way ticket. We sailed for eight hours before the boat's engine broke down. There were around 300 of us on board, and as the waves began to push us towards Cyprus the crew sent a distress signal, hoping to alert maybe a U.N. or Red Cross boat, anyone who could help us. Eventually our boat hit a cliff and got stuck. Luckily, before long, a Cypriot coast guard ship arrived to rescue us and deport us back to Turkey. Turkish authorities fingerprinted and released us within a few hours. Some of the people I had been traveling with said they weren't going to try to make the trip again. When they asked me what I planned to do, I told them I would do it again tomorrow if I could -- another journey through a sea where no prayer works, where no one is bigger than nature, where you can feel so small, no matter how big your dreams are. I'd already lost everything. My family didn't know what I was doing, but I dreamed of being a human being who is treated like one. I wasn't going to stop. So I called the smuggler the same night I was released, and said I wanted to get on the next ship out. Two days later I received the call, and again I headed to a smuggling point. This time, they had a bigger boat -- a cargo ship, in fact, maybe 85 meters long or more. It took five days to get everyone on board the ship -- 391 of us in total, refugees from cities all over Syria. And for the first time, I began to feel like I was in jail, trapped in conditions no human should ever suffer. We lived in the hold. There were no mattresses or sheets, but we found some wooden planks to put our stuff on to keep it from getting wet. Hundreds of migrants killed when boat capsizes. For five days we had no food and little water. But at least it meant not having to make frequent trips to the ``toilet,'' if you could call it that, which was an old car tire covered with a piece of cloth. Huge waves crashed against the ship from all angles and water leaked in from the ceiling as we slept on the cold metal floor of the ship, the smell of urine emanating from the corner. Seven days in, despite the poor conditions, everything was going well and we were nearing the island-dotted seas near Greece. On the eleventh day, 200 miles off the coast of southern Italy our guides began to alert Italian authorities to our presence. We were adrift at sea, they told the authorities, with no captain or crew. And that was actually true -- we didn't have a registered pilot, just one guy who had worked on this ship before. An Icelandic ship -- working in conjunction with Frontex, the joint European Union border patrol -- rescued us from our captain-less boat with the help of a scientific research boat from New Zealand. The rescue ship approached us but was unable to get close at first because the waves were so high. We knew we would have to wait some time before leaving our boat forever. The other refugees were waving their hands like children and then telling each other : ``Stop waving, they've already seen us.'' I was one of the last 10 people to be rescued from the boat. I can still see it like it was yesterday ; it was the rebirth of a new life. Why migrants head to Mediterranean. They took us to Catania, on Sicily, where we finally reached land a day later. When we arrived, the first thing the Italian authorities did was look after the urgent medical cases. There was a man who was poisoned by the drinking water on the boat, a few pregnant women and old people who needed medical attention. They took us to a refugee camp and the only thing anyone talked about was being fingerprinted. They were saying : ``We didn't risk everything to be refugees. We are not going to give our fingerprints, even if they torture us.''. Later that night a Moroccan-Italian man told us not to worry : ``They will not fingerprint you.'' They would simply take us to different camps and we could leave from there. Twelve days after it began, our journey to Europe was over. I spent two days in Sicily before making my way first to Milan with two Syrian guys who had become friends. We decided to go to Germany and went to Paris first and ended up in a city called Saarbrucken. I didn't know where my fellow travellers were heading, but I knew one thing : my dream of making it to Europe, no matter the cost and risk involved, had been achieved. It was worth it.
( CNN ). I see signs of a revolution everywhere. I see it in the op-ed pages of the newspapers, and on the state ballots in nearly half the country. I see it in politicians who once preferred to play it safe with this explosive issue but are now willing to stake their political futures on it. I see the revolution in the eyes of sterling scientists, previously reluctant to dip a toe into this heavily stigmatized world, who are diving in head first. I see it in the new surgeon general who cites data showing just how helpful it can be. I see a revolution in the attitudes of everyday Americans. For the first time a majority, 53 %, favor its legalization, with 77 % supporting it for medical purposes. Support for legalization has risen 11 points in the past few years alone. In 1969, the first time Pew asked the question about legalization, only 12 % of the nation was in favor. I see a revolution that is burning white hot among young people, but also shows up among the parents and grandparents in my kids' school. A police officer I met in Michigan is part of the revolution, as are the editors of the medical journal, Neurosurgery. I see it in the faces of good parents, uprooting their lives to get medicine for their children -- and in the children themselves, such as Charlotte, who went from having 300 seizures a week to just one or two a month. We know it won't consistently have such dramatic results ( or any impact at all ) in others, but what medicine does ?. I see this medical marijuana revolution in surprising places. Girl's seizures spur medical marijuana legislation in Georgia. Among my colleagues, my patients and my friends. I have even seen the revolution in my own family. A few years ago, when I told my mother I was investigating the topic for a documentary, I was met with a long pause. ``Marijuana.. ?'' She whispered in a half questioning, half disapproving tone. She could barely even say the word and her response filled me with self-doubt. Even as a grown man, mom can still make my cheeks turn red and shatter my confidence with a single word. But just last week she suddenly stopped mid-conversation and said, ``I am proud of you on the whole marijuana thing.'' I waited for the other shoe to drop, but it didn't. Instead, she added, ``You probably helped a lot of people who were suffering.''. I don't think we had ever had a conversation like that one. At that moment, I saw a revolution that can bring you to tears. The word revolution, comes from the Latin revolutio, to ``turn around.''. I had my own turn around a couple of years ago, and at the time it was a lonely place to hold a supportive position on medical marijuana. Hardly any government officials would agree to sit down and be interviewed on the topic. Even patients I spoke to were reluctant to share their stories. It can be tricky, I learned, to be on the right side of science but on the wrong side of ideology. When we put the first ``Weed'' documentary on television in August 2013, I didn't know if anyone would watch our yearlong investigation. Even worse, I didn't even know if they would care. Is weed legal in your state ?. Just two years later, in ``Weed 3,'' we are eyewitnesses to a revolution in full swing. You will ride along with us for the dawn of the first federally approved clinical study on the use of marijuana for PTSD. You will meet patients such as Sean Kiernan, an accomplished investment banker, and Amelia Taylor, a stay-at-home mom. They are the remarkable and surprising faces of this revolution -- smart, successful and suffering -- unwilling to accept the fact that commonly prescribed medications often used to treat PTSD can be worse than the underlying disorder itself. Sean Kiernan nearly died, trying to get better. You will see what weed really does to your brain, in crystal clear images. This time around, you will hear from the heads of government agencies earnestly sharing their point of view, both Democratic and Republican senators, and even the President of the United States. This is what a revolution looks like. Your medical marijuana questions answered. When ``Weed 2 : Cannabis Madness'' aired in March 2014, Boston researcher Rick Doblin believed the right people were watching. Just four days later, Doblin received a letter in the mail he had been waiting on for seven years that finally provided federal approval for his marijuana study. The federal farm where Doblin would have to obtain his marijuana is on the campus of Ole Miss in Oxford, Mississippi. In anticipation of a scientific revolution, the production of research-grade marijuana there has increased 30-fold in just the past year. Make no mistake, we have plenty of evidence that the approval and support of the federal government can fast track a revolution at a faster pace than we have yet seen. It was the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases that spearheaded the research into a cure for AIDS, as well as stopping the spread of West Nile Virus. They were also responsible for the awesome task of eradicating polio and smallpox. Other successful federally backed programs include the human genome project, the BRAIN initiative and the Precision Medicine Initiative. There are no shortage of examples where the federal government has been a guardian of our public health needs, and you could argue that medical marijuana would also qualify as a worthwhile investment. 10 diseases where medical marijuana could have impact. There is now promising research into the use of marijuana that could impact tens of thousands of children and adults, including treatment for cancer, epilepsy and Alzheimer's, to name a few. With regard to pain alone, marijuana could greatly reduce the demand for narcotics and simultaneously decrease the number of accidental painkiller overdoses, which are the greatest cause of preventable death in this country. As I sat across from Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand ( D-New York ) and Cory Booker ( D-New Jersey ), I knew something extraordinary was happening. They were reciting the story of Charlotte Figi and countless other children. They were quoting back the data we had shared from our earlier investigations. They were extolling the potential virtues of the plant, and all of that was before the interview even started. There was an impatience about them, and they seemed in a hurry to make a large dent in marijuana reform. They want marijuana to be rescheduled. They want it now. They want doctors to be able to prescribe it at VA hospitals all over the country. They want it now. They want research dollars freed up to study the plant. They want it now. They want their fellow lawmakers at the state and national level to acknowledge what most of the world, including the citizens of the United States, have known for a long time : Marijuana is a medicine, that should be studied and treated like any other medicine. And they want all of it now. I spent much of our interview challenging them. I needed to remind them that people, long before me or them, have been trying to do many of these same things for 40 years, and had been rejected every time. I reminded them that politicians have a hard time winning elections on the issue of marijuana but less difficulty losing them. I challenged them every step of the way. ``This time will be different,'' Booker confidently told me as he walked out of the room. Is marijuana as safe as -- or safer than -- alcohol ?. I know how easy it is do nothing because I did nothing for too long. Take a good look at the data, educate yourself and talk to the patients, who are often out of options and find their hope in the form of a simple plant. Journalists shouldn't take a position. It makes sense. Objectivity is king. But, at some point, open questions do get answered. At some point, contentious issues do get resolved. At some point, common sense prevails. So, here it is : We should legalize medical marijuana. We should do it nationally. And, we should do it now. 9 things to know about legal pot.
( CNN ) Russian President Vladimir Putin shrugged off repeated questions about the impact of Western sanctions on his nation during a nationally broadcast annual Q&A session. ``Sanctions are sanctions,'' he said. ``As far as sanctions are concerned.. ( they're ) about the need to constrain our development,'' not just about Ukraine and Crimea. Western sanctions were implemented after Moscow annexed Crimea and pro-Russian separatists battled Ukrainian government forces in the nation's east. Putin predicted the sanctions would not end soon. On the Middle East, the Russian leader defended lifting a ban on the sale of a sophisticated air defense system to Iran. ``We need to encourage our Iranian partners,'' Putin said, referring to a preliminary deal to limit Iran's nuclear program. Sanctions against Iran have had a dramatic impact on the nation's economy. On Israeli and Western fears that such a system would embolden Iran, Putin scoffed. ``Iran is not a threat to Israel at all,'' he said. ``It is a defense weapon.''. Putin's annual exercise is fascinating for ordinary Russians, who normally get him in closely managed doses on state-run television. These sessions are live and can go on and on. Last year, he spoke for three hours and 55 minutes. In 2013, it was a record-setting four hours and 47 minutes. Organizers said public interest was especially strong this year, with 2.4 million questions submitted. Of course, critics of the Kremlin slam the entire event as Russia's imitation of democracy in action. It's hard to imagine a truly critical question, they say, getting aired on national television there. In fact, it's best not to look at this event as an opportunity for Russians to question their leader at all. Instead, it is more like a highly produced, highly choreographed chance for their leader to speak to them, and to the world. Last year, there was a ``surprise'' appearance by NSA whistle-blower Edward Snowden, who was granted asylum in Russia. He addressed Putin by video link, quizzing Putin about Moscow's own surveillance practices.
( CNN ) Talk show host Dr. Mehmet Oz is defending himself against a group of doctors who accuse him of ``manifesting an egregious lack of integrity'' in his TV and promotional work and who call his faculty position at Columbia University unacceptable. In a written statement issued last week, Oz said, ``I bring the public information that will help them on their path to be their best selves. We provide multiple points of view, including mine which is offered without conflict of interest. That doesn't sit well with certain agendas which distort the facts. For example, I do not claim that GMO ( genetically modified organism ) foods are dangerous, but believe that they should be labeled like they are in most countries around the world. I will address this on the show next week.''. That show was taped on Tuesday and in a clip posted online after the taping, he tells his audience he will not be silenced. The episode will air on Thursday afternoon in most markets, Friday in others. It all started when a group of 10 physicians from across the country emailed a letter to Columbia University expressing disapproval that Oz is on the faculty. The email sent to Columbia's faculty dean for Health Sciences and Medicine, Dr. Lee Goldman, said the group is ``surprised and dismayed'' that Oz is on faculty and that he holds a senior administrative position. Oz is vice chair of the Department of Surgery, at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. The email was sent by Dr. Henry Miller, a fellow in scientific philosophy and public policy at Stanford University's Hoover Institute. It was signed by nine other physicians from across the country, none of whom is affiliated with Columbia. They accuse Oz of what they call ``manifesting an egregious lack of integrity by promoting quack treatments and cures in the interest of personal financial gain.''. They go on to say Oz has ``either outrageous conflicts of interest or flawed judgments about what constitutes appropriate medical treatments, or both.''. The doctors argue in their emailed letter that Oz shows ``disdain for science and for evidence-based medicine, as well as baseless and relentless opposition to the genetic engineering of food crops.'' It's worth noting that Miller previously worked at the FDA, at one point reviewing genetically engineered drugs. As an example, they cite an investigation reported on the show in 2011 in which apple juice was presented as having unsafe levels of arsenic. The FDA disputed the findings and said the report was misleading and irresponsible. This is not the first time Oz has been called out. He was in the hot seat on Capitol Hill at a June 2014 hearing on false advertising for deceptive weight loss products featured on his show. Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Missouri, and chairwoman of the Senate Subcommittee on Consumer Protection, Product Safety and Insurance, said at the hearing he was perpetuating scams, whether it was intentional or not. Miller and the other doctors who signed the email echo that sentiment, saying Oz is misleading the public and they tell Columbia's Goldman that having him on the faculty is unacceptable. The doctors, who are in different areas of the country and different facets of the medical community, all have a connection to Miller although they do not all know each other. CNN has reached out to all of them. Those who have responded say Miller invited them to sign the email. Orlando, Florida, anesthesiologist Dr. Shelley Fleet told CNN when she received an email from Miller inviting her to sign the email to Columbia, she said of course. ``He's a charlatan, and Columbia elevating him to a position of authority is a credence and platform for misleading more people,'' she said in a phone interview. Fleet was a classmate of Miller's at MIT. Dr. Joel Tepper, a radiology professor at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, is also a former classmate of Miller's. He told CNN he does not have a vendetta against Oz. He said he just wants him to ``follow the basic rules of science and state what he knows as fact as fact and state what he doesn't know as fact as not fact.''. He and Fleet share McCaskill's example of Oz's promotion of ``miracle weight loss drugs'' on the show as failure on Oz's part to follow the oath taken by doctors to do no harm. Dr. Gordon Gill, professor emeritus of medicine and of cellular and molecular medicine at the University of San Diego School of Medicine, wrote in a letter to CNN : ``In discussions with Henry, I agreed that the imprimatur of Columbia Medical School behind Dr. Oz gave an inaccurate message to TV viewers and as Dr. Goldman and I are long time colleagues I was comfortable pointing out these problems to him.''. Miller worked in Gill's research lab before he went to medical school. While the email does not call for any specific action to be taken by the university, Miller told CNN in an email that the group's goal is ``for Dr. Oz to resign from the Columbia faculty and decide that he'd prefer a career as a TV celebrity doctor.''. Oz spokesman Tim Sullivan sent an email to CNN last week listing the names of five of the 10 people who complained about Oz. The email questions the integrity and even the qualifications of those who are pointing fingers at Oz. For its part, Columbia University is standing by Oz. Spokesman Doug Levy said in a statement, ``Columbia is committed to the principle of academic freedom and to upholding faculty members' freedom of expression for statements they make in public discussion.''. Levy added that the university's role is to foster research, and it will not take action that hinders public statements by faculty members. The university has no position on what faculty members say in public discussion -- that is their individual academic freedom and is provided to them in the university's governing documents, he said. A cardiac surgeon, Oz came to Columbia for his residency after medical school in 1986 and rose through the ranks. He is also the director of the Cardiovascular Institute and Complementary Medicine program at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Oz rose to fame after frequent appearances on ``The Oprah Winfrey Show'' led to the creation of his own show and magazine. He is also co-founder of the consumer health website Sharecare.com. CNN's Elizabeth Cohen, Anne Woolsey and Kim Berryman contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The listeria outbreak that prompted Blue Bell Creameries to recall their entire product line dates to 2010, according to the Centers for Disease Control. After weeks of gradual recalls, the company recalled all its ice cream, frozen yogurt, sherbet and other frozen treats sold in 23 states because they could be contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes, the company said Monday. The bacteria can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, the elderly and others with weak immune systems. The CDC recommends consumers do not eat any Blue Bell brand products. Three people in Kansas have died in the past year and 10 people in four states have fallen ill from the bacteria believed to have come from Blue Bell products, the CDC said Tuesday. One person became sick in Arizona, five in Kansas, one in Oklahoma and three in Texas, the CDC said. People first became sick in January 2010, the CDC said. The agency connected patients from 2010-2015 to the current outbreak through comparisons to a database of bacteria DNA. The origin of the strain is still unknown, but ``the fact that it was the same strain over the last five years suggests it could have lurked somewhere in the factory the whole time,'' said Dr. Robert Tauxe, deputy director of the CDC Division of Foodborne, Waterborne and Environmental Diseases. Tauxe said there may be more people sickened by listeria than the CDC knows about. The ``rough estimate'' is one more case exists for every case the CDC hears about, he said. ``There may be cases that never got diagnosed and we are looking at the patterns, the DNA patterns, to guide us to which cases might be related,'' he said. ``If tomorrow someone found another completely different pattern from ( Blue Bell ) ice cream products, we'd be looking to see if there were related cases to that as well.''. Tauxe said the listeria strains found in Texas are different than those found in Oklahoma. ``It looks to us like there was one group of closely related strains related to ice cream from one factory and another different group related to a different factory,'' Tauxe said. ``We don't think something contaminated both factories.''. Blue Bell decided to yank all its products after tests showed some half-gallon containers of chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream contained listeria. ``This means Blue Bell has now had several positive tests for Listeria in different places and plants,'' the company said in a written statement. ``At this point, we can not say with certainty how Listeria was introduced to our facilities, and so we have taken this unprecedented step,'' the company said. Listeria : What is it, how do you get it, and what's the risk ?. Listeria didn't get into ice cream through the milk because Blue Bell uses pasteurized milk, Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of food safety for Center for Science in the Public Interest, told CNN on Tuesday. But listeria could have been carried on foods like nuts that go into ice cream, she said. It can live for years on surfaces such as drains or pipes. ``Listeria can lay in a drain for years,'' she said. ``To get rid of it they'd have to take the equipment apart and clean it. It's a big job to control listeria in a plant.''. Tauxe said, ``Within the factories it can get around and may have hung out and appeared in more than one place in the factory.. The persistence of listeria inside the factory is what's important to address.''. DeWaal said the listeria probably wasn't linked to Blue Bell in 2010 because one case wouldn't spark a full investigation. Other culprits, such as cheeses and deli meats, would be considered before ice cream products, because listeria can't grow in frozen temperatures, she said. ``Ice cream wouldn't have been one of the suspect foods in investigating those earlier cases,'' she said. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment said three people in the state died from listeria there over the past year, possibly due to Blue Bell products. All five of the people who got sick in Kansas were patients being treated at the same hospital for unrelated causes, state health officials said. Four of them drank milkshakes at the hospital made with Blue Bell ice cream, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. It's not clear whether the fifth patient at the Kansas hospital had also consumed Blue Bell ice cream. In a separate outbreak in Texas, three patients were infected with listeria between 2011 and 2014. Tests of those listeria strains ``were nearly identical to Listeria strains isolated from ice cream produced at the Blue Bell Creameries' Oklahoma facility,'' the CDC said. In March, Blue Bell recalled 3-ounce cups of chocolate, vanilla and strawberry ice cream after a test found listeria in one of the cups in Kansas. Earlier this month, the recall expanded to some pints and half-gallon sizes of ice cream. This recall is not only affecting big chain grocery stores. One small ice cream shop in Texas has temporarily closed due to the recall. John Hayes, owner of Waffle Cone in Copperas Cove, Texas, said he exclusively uses Blue Bell. He received a phone call Monday night from Blue Bell letting him know a local driver will be picking up his 190-200 gallons of recalled ice cream this week. ``It is the third recall in the last month,'' said Hayes. ``I was upset, but more disappointed.''. The shop owner has dealt with a shortage in flavors before, but nothing of his severity. ``It will be at least three, maybe four weeks for Blue Bell to replace the order,'' he said. Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people and others with weakened immune systems, the Food and Drug Administration says. In the United States, an estimated 1,600 people become seriously ill with listeria each year ; about 16 % of these cases result in death. Although some people might suffer only short-term symptoms such as high fever, severe headache, nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea, listeria can also cause miscarriages and stillbirths. Blue Bell CEO and President Paul Kruse promised to make sure all products are safe before they go back on sale. ``We're committed to doing the 100 percent right thing, and the best way to do that is to take all of our products off the market until we can be confident that they are all safe,'' Kruse said in a statement on the company's website. ``We are heartbroken about this situation and apologize to all of our loyal Blue Bell fans and customers.''. Blue Bell said its new safety measures will include more extensive cleaning and sanitizing of equipment ; increasing the swabbing and testing of facility surfaces by 800 % ; providing more employee training ; and sending samples to a lab for testing every day. CNN's Elizabeth Cohen, Debra Goldschmidt, Amanda Jackson, Catherine E. Shoichet, Ben Brumfield and Jeremy Grisham contributed to this report.
( CNN ) This week, social media heralded as #motheroftheyear Toya Graham, the Baltimore single mom who pulled her son, who was holding a brick, away from the scene of a riot. A video of Graham yanking young Michael from a group of protesters -- and subsequently pummeling him with her fists and a few slaps upside the head -- went viral. Many called her a hero : a mother determined to stop the cycle of violence. And yet, wasn't she also promoting violence ? Her own reaction, after all, was to yell, curse and hit. ``Why is America celebrating the beating of a black child ?'' asked a writer at The Washington Post. Isn't violence at home what leads to violence outside the home ? Isn't this why rioting happens ?. I'm not excusing violence in any form. I wish it didn't exist. But Baltimore isn't on fire because of mothers like Graham. In fact, what we need, not only in communities like Baltimore but also in communities around the country, are more mothers like her. Mothers who will do whatever it takes to protect their children and steer them through the increasingly tricky course of adolescence. I don't see Graham as an abusive mother spreading the gospel, or at least the inevitability, of violence. I don't see her as a hero, either. What I do see in Graham is a woman who is just like millions of other mothers of adolescents, mothers whose daily struggle is focused on guiding their kids in a positive direction while also helping them develop their own identities and independence. Mothers who know the anger and frustration that can result when they catch their teenager in a lie. As Graham told Anderson Cooper, she'd told Michael the night before not to join in any riots. He swore he wouldn't. But her momma bear sense kicked in, and when she heard that school was closing early, she didn't take the chance that he'd stick to his promise. She went to the site of the riots to make sure that she could help him stay the course. She went there so that she could help him keep his promise. And when she got there and saw he hadn't, as she suspected, she reacted in the way that she knew would, in that moment, be most effective to get him out of there. And that's the key here. It's easy to punish a teenager for acting out, just as it's easy to punish Graham for taking out her frustrations on Michael in a physical way. But Graham's actions are evidence of her commitment as a parent. For better or worse, she knows her son. And she knows her community, and her reality. She knows that she's the mother of an adolescent boy living in a city caught up in a very heated, violent moment. And she will do anything to protect her son, including put herself in a dangerous situation to pull him out of there. Can we all say that ?. Toya Graham raises an important point that's often missing in the discussions of how to curb violence : Moms have power. The world needs more momma bear types -- mothers who might be willing to put themselves between their child and certain danger. Mothers who are willing to defy the ``expert'' advice telling them that teenagers need the room to make mistakes ; that hovering or even trying to anticipate their misbehavior only stunts their development and leads to more misbehavior. Now more than ever, there are exceptions to that rule. Those of us who live in communities that are generally safe can't imagine the level of fear and frustration that must run through the very core of a mother like Graham. We don't all face the same obstacles as the people who live in places like Baltimore. But we all face the same challenges in raising children. Perhaps it's time to recognize that, at least in that sense, we're more alike than we are different.
( CNN ) If that was a tornado, it was one monster of one. Luckily, so far it looks like no one was hurt. With tornadoes touching down near Dallas on Sunday, Ryan Shepard snapped a photo of a black cloud formation reaching down to the ground. He said it was a tornado. It wouldn't be an exaggeration to say it looked half a mile wide. More like a mile, said Jamie Moore, head of emergency management in Johnson County, Texas. It could have been one the National Weather Service warned about in a tweet as severe thunderstorms drenched the area, causing street flooding. ``To repeat -- tornadoes ( yes, two ) likely W and E of Rio Vista. The one to the E of Rio Vista is a large, damaging tornado,'' the NWS tweeted. Luckily, it tore through countryside, and there have been no reports of deaths. But surveyors had not been out to check for damage or casualties overnight because the weather was so bad, Moore said. There are reports of damage -- including many roofs ripped off -- in Rio Vista and Grandview, both outliers of Fort Worth. On social media, images circulated of flipped 18-wheelers. Tempestuous clouds created dangerous, awe-inspiring funnels and disks as a front swept through. Residents reported hail the size of softballs and posted photos as proof.
( CNN ) Eighteen-month-old twins drowned after their mother tried to fend off a bee and let go of their stroller, which rolled into a canal, Arizona police said. Alexis Keslar was walking with her twin sons, Silas and Eli Keslar, along a canal Friday when she tried to repel a bee, police in Yuma said. ``The stroller rolled away from her into the canal, with the boys belted in the seat,'' police said Monday. Keslar went into the canal and tried to rescue her sons, authorities said, but was hampered by the steep sides of the canal, the depth of the water and the force of the current. The current washed the stroller away. After Keslar got out of the canal, she called for help, police said. The irrigation district that manages the canal slowed the flow of water and reduced the water level to help emergency workers find the boys, authorities said. After more than an hour of searching, the toddlers were found and flown to a hospital, where they were pronounced dead. ``No parent should ever have to lose a child, you know, let alone both of them at the same time,'' family friend Marlene Gleim told CNN affiliate KYMA. ``That's what really, really is heartbreaking to me, because those little boys were, you know, meant so much to so many people.''. Authorities say the paths along Yuma canals are popular for joggers and bicyclists, but can be dangerous. ``Many people typically do not comprehend how swift the current in these canals are and how deep the water can be,'' Yuma police said. ``They also do not realize how difficult it is to climb back up many of the canal embankments.''
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) The death toll from the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal two days ago surged past 3,000 on Monday, a government official said. The desperate search for survivors from the country's worst natural disaster in more than 80 years continued. The number of people confirmed dead in Nepal stands at 3,218, said Nepalese Ministry of Home Affairs spokesman Laxmi Dhakal. India has reported 56 deaths, and China another 20. The death toll is expected to climb further as officials get information from the rugged countryside that makes up most of Nepal. As day broke Monday, Nepal was still in survival mode after suffering a series of aftershocks following the huge initial quake on Saturday. The damage was everywhere. Stunned residents wandered the streets of Kathmandu, the capital city of roughly 3 million people that's now the focus of international disaster relief efforts. People dug through piles of debris where their homes once stood, seeking pieces of their former lives and, possibly, family members. Many of the injured were treated outside overflowing hospitals, where crowds of people gathered looking for relatives. Dhakal, the government spokesman, said Monday 6,525 people were reported to have been injured. One video aired on Nepal State Television captured a rare bright moment amid the death and devastation. It shows uniformed officers digging though rubble, desperately trying to free a man who is hurt but alive. Rescuers lift him up, and cheers of joy erupt from the crowd. The clip shows him being put on a stretcher and carried to safety. But often, searchers have found bodies rather than survivors. And the odds of saving the living decrease as the crucial first 72 hours tick by. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation. ``The journey towards my family home in Sitapaila was a map of quake destruction, with many houses -- old and new -- torn apart,'' wrote freelance journalist Sunir Pandey. ``A high wall surrounding a monastery had collapsed and the nuns had run to a nearby field,'' he wrote. ``A mud-and-brick cottage had fallen on a blue motorbike but no trace could be found of its rider. Everywhere, survivors gathered wherever they could find open space -- fields, private compounds, empty roadside lots.''. At night, many Nepalis slept in the open, shivering in the frigid air of the Himalayan Mountains but at least safe from falling debris. ``The entire city was under darkness,'' Christina Berry of England wrote for CNN affiliate IBN from Kathmandu. ``There was not a single light anywhere. The power supply had been cut off. Our caring hotel manager gave us some food and some candles, too. Me and Alexandra were so scared. We slept in the open verandah of the hotel fearing more quakes in the night.''. Read earthquake stories from social media. CNN producer Ingrid Formanek, who arrived Sunday night, said Kathmandu ``looks like a city where buildings have been abandoned. People are hanging out in public squares and at intersections to avoid rubble from buildings.''. ``We were able to drive the main road to the hotel we're staying at, but they're not allowing anyone inside because of the aftershocks. The guests are in a big tent used for functions on the lawn. People are squeezed in. There are probably about 100 people in there,'' Formanek said. ``The tents are covered, but water is seeping in from streets puddled with water, especially around the edges of the tent.''. Residents of Kathmandu are banding together to get by, with stores shuttered and very few sources of food and drinkable water. ``Communal kitchens have been set up for cooking,'' Formanek said. ``Not by the government -- people set them up on their own.''. Many of the city's centuries-old buildings, which had stood stalwart for generations and provided a sense of national pride, have been toppled. Dozens of bodies were pulled from Dharahara, the historic nine-story tower that came crashing down during the quake. A backhoe chipped away at the nub left protruding through its crumbled ruins. When it seemed as if things couldn't get worse, a powerful aftershock jolted Nepal on Sunday, sending people screaming into the streets and causing new injuries for already traumatized residents. Climbers said it set off fresh avalanches on Mount Everest, where at least 17 people were reported to have been killed on Saturday. The magnitude of the new quake Sunday was initially estimated at 6.7 by the U.S. Geological Survey, considerably weaker than the magnitude-7.8 of the devastating one of a day earlier. Four Americans were confirmed to be among the dead. Google executive Dan Fredinburg was one of them. According to an Instagram post by his sister on his account, an avalanche killed Fredinburg on Mount Everest. Marisa Eve Girawong, who went by her middle name, of New Jersey also was killed by an avalanche on Everest. The physician's assistant was working as an Everest base camp doctor for Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering, when she was swept away to her death. Tom Taplin, a filmmaker from Santa Monica, California, was making a documentary on Everest climbers, when wind stirred by the avalanche caused him to take a fall, CNN affiliate KABC reported. Looking for missing loved ones in Nepal ? CNN iReport wants to help. The mountains that define Nepal make it difficult to deliver relief, though international efforts are in full swing. Aftershocks are also complicating operations. A team of 260 emergency responders was about an hour away from departure at Israel's Ben Gurion Airport when an aftershock in Kathmandu delayed its departure. The U.S. Agency for International Development's Disaster Response Team, made up of 54 urban search and rescue specialists from Fairfax County, Virginia, and six K-9s, headed to Nepal on Sunday on a C-17 military transport plane. The dogs are trained to find signs of life in rubble after a disaster. But the trip was expected to take about 24 hours, reducing the precious hours left in which survivors are likely to be found. Are you in Nepal or do you have loved ones affected ? Please share with us if you are in a safe place. How to help the earthquake victims. Fast Facts on earthquakes. CNN's Manesh Shrestha reported from Kathmandu ; CNN's Ralph Ellis wrote and reported from Atlanta ; and CNN's Jethro Mullen wrote and reported from Hong Kong. CNN's Harmeet Shah Singh, Sumnima Udas, Oren Liebermann and Brian Walker also contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A Lamborghini sports car crashed into a guardrail at Walt Disney World Speedway on Sunday, killing a passenger, the Florida Highway Patrol said. The crash occurred at 3:30 p.m. at the Exotic Driving Experience, which bills itself as a chance to drive your dream car on a racetrack. The 36-year-old passenger, Gary Terry of Davenport, Florida, was pronounced dead at the scene, Florida Highway Patrol said. The driver, 24-year-old Tavon Watson of Kissimmee, Florida, lost control of the vehicle, the Highway Patrol said. He was hospitalized with minor injuries. Petty Holdings, which operates the Exotic Driving Experience at Walt Disney World Speedway, released a statement Sunday night about the crash. ``On behalf of everyone in the organization, it is with a very heavy heart that we extend our deepest sympathies to those involved in today's tragic accident in Orlando,'' the company said. Petty Holdings also operates the Richard Petty Driving Experience -- a chance to drive or ride in NASCAR race cars named for the winningest driver in the sport's history. CNN's Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this report.
Lausanne, Switzerland ( CNN ) There are plenty of details left to iron out, but negotiators took a significant step Thursday toward a landmark deal aimed at keeping Iran's nuclear program peaceful. After a marathon stretch of late-night negotiations in Lausanne, Switzerland, diplomats announced they'd come up with the framework for an agreement that's been months in the making. Iran would reduce its stockpile of low-enriched uranium by 98 % and significantly scale back its number of installed centrifuges, according to the plan. In exchange, the United States and the European Union would lift sanctions that have crippled the country's economy. ``It is a good deal, a deal that meets our core objectives,'' U.S. President Barack Obama said in a speech from the White House Rose Garden. ``This framework would cut off every pathway that Iran could take to develop a nuclear weapon.''. The deal would include strict verification measures to make sure Iran complies, he said. ``If Iran cheats,'' Obama said, ``the world will know it.''. Key points of the deal. The world powers involved in the talks with Iran were the United States, Russia, China, France, the United Kingdom and Germany. For the United States and Iran, two countries with a long history of strained relations, the negotiations took on an added significance. Just two years ago, they hadn't talked with each other officially in nearly four decades. ``I think there was a seriousness of purpose,'' U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told CNN in an interview shortly after the framework was announced. ``People negotiated hard. It was tough, very intense at times, sometimes emotional and confrontational. It was a very intensive process, because the stakes are very high, and because there is a long history of not talking to each other. For 35 years, we haven't talked with the Iranians directly like this.''. On Thursday, Iranian state television broadcast Obama's speech live, something many Iranians described as unprecedented. Some Iranians marked the historic moment in U.S.-Iranian relations on Twitter by sharing ``selfies'' of themselves in front of the live Obama speech. But U.S. leaders were still talking tough, even as they praised the agreement. Kerry stressed that if a final deal is reached with Iran, the removal of any sanctions against Tehran will come in phases. ``And if we find out at any point that Iran is not complying with the agreement, the sanctions can snap back into place,'' he said. Iran didn't seem to be changing its tune, either. ``Iran-U.S. relations had nothing to do with this. This was an attempt to resolve the nuclear issue.. We have serious differences with the United States,'' Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said after the deal's framework was announced, noting that ``mutual mistrust'' had been a serious problem in the talks. The preliminary agreement will not put an end to Iran's enrichment activities, Zarif said. ``None of those measures include closing any of our facilities. The proud people of Iran would never accept that,'' he said. But he said Iran will abide by the agreement, which would limit enrichment activities to one location, he said. 21 questions on Iranian nuclear talks. But work on the deal isn't finished. There's a June 30 deadline for coming up with a final agreement. In the United States, the Obama administration could face an uphill battle selling the deal to a skeptical Congress, which has threatened to impose new sanctions on Iran. Already, there were rumblings of the looming political fight. Kerry said he didn't believe Congress would block the deal, telling CNN it ``would be very irresponsible to make politics trump facts and science and the realities of what is possible here.''. House Speaker John Boehner said in a statement that he was planning to stand strong and press the administration with tough questions. ``The President says negotiators have cleared the basic threshold needed to continue talks, but the parameters for a final deal represent an alarming departure from the White House's initial goals,'' he said, arguing that Congress must review details of a deal before any sanctions are lifted. Obama warned leaders of Congress not to stop the deal. ``If Congress kills this deal not based on expert analysis and without offering any reasonable alternative, then it's the United States that will be blamed for the failure of diplomacy,'' Obama said. ``International unity will collapse.''. Obama maintains the deal would shut down Iran's path to getting a nuclear bomb. But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says the opposite is true. ``Such a deal would not block Iran's path to the bomb. It would pave it,'' he said in a statement. ``It would increase the risks of nuclear proliferation in the region and the risks of a horrific war.''. Netanyahu has been lobbying against an agreement since the talks began, warning U.S. lawmakers in a congressional address last month that Iran can't be trusted. Israeli government officials vowed to continue their push against what they called ``a poor framework that will lead to a bad and dangerous agreement.''. ``If an agreement is reached on the basis of this framework, it will result in a historic mistake that will make the world a far more dangerous place,'' the Israeli officials said in a statement. ``This framework gives international legitimacy to Iran's nuclear program that aims only to produce nuclear bombs.''. Obama said that he was reaching out to Netanyahu to explain and defend the tentative framework. ``If, in fact, Prime Minister Netanyahu is looking for the most effective way to ensure that Iran doesn't get a nuclear weapon, this is the best option,'' Obama said. Negotiations between Iran and the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council -- China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States -- plus Germany began in 2006 and have had a tortured history. Over the past nine years, the push and pull over Iran's nuclear program produced a bewildering array of proposals. Meanwhile, as talks dragged on, the United States, the European Union and others imposed sanctions on Iran, provoking resentment among Tehran's leaders, who called the sanctions a crime against humanity. The challenge all along was twofold : To assure the international community that Iran could not develop nuclear weapons ( which it denied in any event that it was doing ) ; and to accommodate the country's assertion of its right -- as a signer of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons -- to enrich nuclear fuel for civilian purposes. The broad outlines of a deal seem to have been clear for some time. But the devil was in the details, and the numbers, timing, sequencing and verification procedures proved devilishly difficult to resolve. Until now. The 2013 election of Hassan Rouhani, a political moderate, to Iran's presidency infused the talks with new hope, though questions lingered over whether he could persuade the country's hard-liners to accept an agreement. U.S. leaders also were divided over the agreement as envisioned. In a March 9 letter signed by 47 Republican U.S. senators, Iran's leaders were warned that any deal not approved by the Senate could immediately be revoked by President Barack Obama's successor in 2017. Democrats denounced the sending of such a letter to foreign leaders as an unprecedented intervention in negotiations between the administration and another country. And Iran's leaders also dismissed the letter. CNN's Elise Labott reported from Lausanne and Mariano Castillo and Catherine E. Shoichet wrote the story in Atlanta. CNN's Don Melvin, Mark Bixler, Cynde Strand, Sarah Aarthun, Jedd Rosche, Jethro Mullen, Greg Botelho and Jim Sciutto contributed to this report.
( CNN ) He's been part of a wildly popular superhero team since its very beginning. But there's something we never knew about Bobby Drake, aka Iceman of the X-Men. Wednesday's issue of ``All-New X-Men'' No. 40 reveals the truth : Bobby is gay. ``There are thousands if not millions of stories of people who, for many different reasons, felt the need to hide their sexuality,'' Brian Michael Bendis, who wrote the issue, said in a statement to CNN. ``The X-Men, with the conceit of time travel, give us a fascinating platform in which to examine such personal journeys. This is just the first little chapter of a much larger story that will be told.''. Iceman's outing happens in an unusual manner. In the ``All-New X-Men'' storyline, members of the X-Men team travel to the past, as younger versions of themselves. Mind-reading mutant Jean Grey ( also an X-Men original ) asks Bobby why he calls women ``hot,'' when she knows he is gay. In comic book pages provided to CNN, Bobby doesn't immediately acknowledge that she is telling the truth. The character of Iceman is perhaps best known for his appearances in many of the ``X-Men'' films, as well as the 1981 animated series ``Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends.''. The ``X-Men'' series of comics have long been progressive in terms of diversity, with a black female character, Storm, appearing in the 1970s, and the first gay mainstream comic book character, Northstar ( who later married in the pages ). DC Comics has also had prominent gay characters in recent years, like Batwoman and the original Green Lantern of Earth 2. Catwoman recently came out as bisexual, and Harley Quinn is portrayed that way as well. Bendis further shared his thoughts on Twitter about the attention surrounding the story when it leaked on Tuesday : ``i swear on my dogs, i wanted the issue to come out and just be. no press. no sensational headlines. no leaks. oh, well..''
Hong Kong ( CNN ) Four months after the end of the massive Occupy protests that clogged Hong Kong's streets in a bid for greater voting rights, another confrontation is heating up in the former British colony. The flashpoint ? A controversial Beijing-backed election proposal tabled Wednesday that pro-democracy legislators have already sworn to veto, describing it as ``ridiculous.''. In a speech before the city's legislature, Chief Secretary Carrie Lam said that if approved, the proposal would give Hong Kongers the right to vote for their next leader in 2017. The catch, of course, is candidates would have to be approved by a mostly pro-China committee. Dissenting pro-democracy legislators wearing black marched from the chamber as soon as Lam's speech ended. Some legislators raised yellow umbrellas, a symbol of the Occupy movement. ``Their fake universal suffrage is an insult to everybody's intelligence ; that's why we refused to stay in the chamber.'' Hong Kong Democratic Party chairwoman Emily Lau told CNN. Lau said that she and other pro-democracy candidates would cast votes to ensure it does not become law. Hong Kong has become increasingly polarized over the last few years as the city fights over what kind of political system it should have as a Special Administrative Region of China. According to the agreement signed by the United Kingdom that returned the city to Chinese control in 1997, Hong Kong would receive 50 years of ``high autonomy'' under an arrangement called ``One Country, Two Systems.''. Part of that deal included establishing an election system based on the principles of universal suffrage. But nearly eighteen years after the handover, the city continues to fight over what universal suffrage really means. Hong Kong's leaders argue its latest proposal fulfills the long-awaited promise of universal suffrage by giving each resident the right to cast a vote. All that's left is for the legislature to approve the proposal, and then everyone can go home happy, they say. Pro-democracy Hong Kongers beg to differ. ``If it is a genuine election, people should be free to stand and people should be free to vote,'' said Lau. ``Now all you have is a vote, and the candidates must be vetted by a committee consisting of business and political elites. It's horrendous. ``To say the majority of Hong Kongers want to support this nonsensical package is a blatant lie. If nothing is changed, we will definitely vote it down.''. To become law, the proposal must receive the support of two thirds of Hong Kong's 70 legislators. But Lau and 26 other pro-democracy legislators make up more than a third of the chamber, meaning they can veto the bill. If they do, then the city's electoral reform process will effectively return to square one. Hong Kong's leadership has warned pro-democracy legislators against the veto, saying the city might never again receive a chance for political reform. ``We must strive for consensus,'' Lam told legislators. ``We sincerely hope the pan-democrats abandon their passive attitude.''. But consensus seems unlikely. Hong Kong and Chinese leaders have repeatedly said there is no room for the proposal to change. In response, Lau and other pro-democracy legislators will launch a citywide campaign this weekend to rally public opinion against the proposal. And she did not rule out the possibility of a repeat of last year's massive street protests. ``Should people decide to resort to civil disobedience again, its up to them,'' she said. ``Whatever we do, our struggle must be peaceful, orderly, nonviolent. And we will do our best.''. Wayne Chang and CNN's Vivian Kam contributed reporting.
( CNN ) Australia has recalled its ambassador to Indonesia for consultations after two Australians were among eight drug smugglers executed by firing squad early Wednesday. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott called the executions ``cruel and unnecessary'' because both men, Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, had been ``fully rehabilitated'' during a decade in prison. Abbott didn't say what permanent actions, if any, would be taken against Indonesia. ``This is a dark moment in the relationship, but I'm sure the relationship will be restored,'' he said. One of the men's Indonesian lawyers, Todung Mulya Lubis tweeted his apologies. ``I failed. I lost,'' he said. ``I'm sorry.''. Indonesian President Joko Widodo appeared to shrug off the diplomatic recall, telling reporters that ``our legal sovereignty must be respected. We also respect other countries' legal sovereignty.''. Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi said the country had no plans to recall its own ambassador in response. ``This is a legal case. This is not a political case so at this very stage, we do not have any plan to call our ambassador back from Canberra,'' he said. Six other inmates were executed, including Nigerians Raheem Salami, Silvester Obiekwe Nwolise, Okwudil Oyatanze and Martin Anderson ; Indonesian Zainal Abidin and Brazilian Rodrigo Gularte, who was said to be mentally ill. On Wednesday, Brazil's foreign ministry released a statement expressing ``deep sadness'' at Gularte's execution, saying that Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff had urged her Indonesian counterpart to spare him due to his ``psychiatric condition.''. Gularte is the second Brazilian to be executed in Indonesia this year, with the first -- Marco Archer Cardoso Moreira -- prompting the country to recall its ambassador for consultations. The Indonesian government had originally announced that nine prisoners would be executed, but at the last moment Filipina Mary Jane Veloso was spared. ``We are so happy, so happy. I thought I had lost my daughter already but God is so good. Thank you to everyone who helped us,'' her mother Celia Veloso told CNN. Philippines embassy officials said Veloso would be returned to Yogyakarta prison in Central Java later on Wednesday. No reason was given for the reprieve but it may relate to developments in her case late on Tuesday. CNN Philippines reported that Veloso's alleged recruiter, Maria Kristina Sergio and her partner Julius Lacanilao, surrendered to authorities. The report said Sergio had denied all accusations in relation to Veloso's case. Veloso's lawyers claimed the mother-of-two was the victim of human trafficking. They say she was offered work in Malaysia, but when she arrived she was told the job had been filled and wasn't aware the bag she'd been given for the return journey to Indonesia was filled with drugs. A tenth prisoner, Frenchman Serge Atlaoui, was also scheduled to be executed but his case was delayed while a court considers a legal challenge. Candlelight vigils were held for Chan and Sukumaran in the hours ahead of the expected execution. The men's legal teams had been fighting for years for a stay, but it wasn't to be. The men -- then aged in their early twenties -- were arrested in 2005 as part of the ``Bali Nine,'' a drug smuggling gang that intended to import 8 kilograms ( 17.6 pounds ) of heroin from Bali to Australia. They failed. The pair were transported with other prisoners to Indonesia's so-called ``execution island'' in March, and after being given 72-hours notice of their execution on Saturday, Chan married his longtime girlfriend, Febyanti Herewila, on Monday in prison. The executions of Sukumaran and Chan came despite the fact that both this week received a court date of May 12 to hear an outstanding legal challenge. On Tuesday, lawyers for the men also said Indonesia's Judicial Commission had yet to properly investigate claims of corruption during their original trial and sentencing. They said three of the men's Indonesian lawyers had been summoned to attend the commission on May 7. However, before the executions, Indonesia insisted that all legal avenues had closed. On Tuesday, the prisoners' families were heard wailing as they boarded a boat for the execution site. Visiting hours were extended until 8 p.m. to give them extra time before they were asked to leave. Under Indonesian law, the death penalty is carried out by a 12-man firing squad, although only three guns are loaded with live ammunition. Prisoners are given the choice of whether to stand or sit, and whether they want to wear a blindfold, hood or nothing. The shots -- aimed at the heart -- are fired from between 5 and 10 meters ( 16 to 33 feet ), according to Amnesty International. After the executions, the rights group released a statement condemning them as ``reprehensible'' and issue fresh calls for a moratorium on the death penalty. While the Bali Nine have garnered much international attention, their punishment is part of a larger government effort to combat illegal drug trafficking. Indonesian President Widodo has insisted that Indonesia would not be swayed by appeals for clemency because the country is dealing with a ``drugs crisis.'' He told CNN in January that clemency would not be extended to drug traffickers, leading to an appeal from Chan and Sukumaran that their cases hadn't been properly considered. Lawyers for the two men said they underwent radical rehabilitation during their 10 years in Kerobokan prison and were helping to counsel and support other inmates. Chan was ordained as a Christian minister who led prayer meetings, while Sukumaran became an accomplished painter and established his own art classes inside the Bali prison. The Indonesian government didn't confirm until late Tuesday that the executions were to go ahead. Preparations were clearly underway earlier that day, with the arrival of ambulances at the port where boats leave to go to Nusa Kambangan island where the prisoners were being held. Images showed individual crosses bearing the prisoners' names and the date April 29, 2015. Families were in little doubt as to what lay ahead. When reports of his death emerged, Sukumaran's cousin tweeted : ``I love you more than you can imagine. Your legacy will live on. I promise. Save me a place in heaven.''. CNN's Tasha Tampubolon contributed to this report.
( CNN ) President Abraham Lincoln never lost his ardor for the United States to remain united during the Civil War. In his Second Inaugural address he attempted to salve the nation with an eloquent summation of his philosophy and plans for putting it into practice. ``With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right,'' he orated, ``let us strive on to finish the work we are in to bind up the nations' wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.''. The spirit of Lincoln's second inaugural was self-evident on April 9, 1865 -- 150 years ago -- when Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee dramatically surrendered his approximately 28,000 troops to Union General Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Courthouse ( McLean House ) in Virginia. Over 600,000 Americans -- Northerners and Southerners alike -- had perished in the bloody Civil War. But the carnage was now about to end. The historic meeting between Grant and Lee began with pleasantries about the weather and their mutual service in the Mexican War. The good fellowship was palpable. Lee, in fact, had to abruptly remind the chatty Grant about the diplomatic business at hand. After all, they were at Appomattox Courthouse to hash out terms of surrender. Grant purposely ended up being generous to Confederate soldiers. They would be paroled, not condemned to prison camps. Rebel officers were even allowed to maintain their sidearms. Personal property of Southerners would now be respected. Even rations were provided by Grant for Lee's hungry soldiers. It was Palm Sunday and in the spirit of Christian reconciliation Grant ordered that no celebration occur within Union Army ranks. ``The Confederates were now our prisoners,'' Grant wrote, ``and we did not want to exult over their downfall.''. The myth-making about Appomattox started from the moment Lee left the courthouse on his horse to travel to Richmond. Surrendering hadn't been easy for Lee. Sullen from defeat, his own family property in Arlington had been confiscated by Union forces ( converted into a Union cemetery with lines of white crosses on the lawn ). All 11,000 acres of his Virginia land holdings had been stripped from him by the U.S. government. With no real home, Lee rode to Richmond, depressed and destitute, rendezvousing with his sick wife Mary Curtis Lee at a spare apartment. Remarkably, the stoic Lee didn't express bitterness in public. When news reached Lee that Lincoln had been murdered, in fact, he was distraught, calling it ``a crime'' that was ``unexampled'' and ``deplorable.'' Although much remained unresolved between the victors and vanquished, the little courthouse became a symbol of unity, just like the ``Star Spangled Banner'' from the War of 1812. One post-Appomattox story that has long interested me was that of Littleberry Walker. After being present at Lee's dramatic surrender at Appomattox, Walker, a battle-fatigued Confederate, laid down his rifle and journeyed back to red-clay, Georgia, traveling mainly on foot, passing ragged clusters of Rebel amputees, many hobbling on bayonet crutches, others with arms or heads swathed in bandages and all heading in the same direction : home. Upon arriving in Atlanta, a weary Walker found the Confederate railroad-city smoldered in ruin, the handiwork of Gen. William T. Sherman's ``scorched earth policy.'' ( One-hundred-twenty years later, Walker's great-grandson, 39th President Jimmy Carter, would construct his Carter Center, an NGO dedicated to diplomatically resolving global conflicts, on the very hilltop overlooking Atlanta on which Gen. Sherman once stood. ). Upon leaving Atlanta, Walker continued walking south, anxious for his kinfolk. Unfortunately, he returned to Sumter County only to learn that his father had died and that the family farm was teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. One suspects Inman, the main character of novelist Charles Frazier's ``Cold Mountain,'' spoke for the battle-hardened Civil War veterans like Walker, when he lamented that, ``What you have lost will not be returned to you. It will always be lost. You're left with only your scars to mark the void. All you can do is go on or not. But if you go on, it's knowing you carry scars with you.''. As we reflect on the sesquicentennial of Lee's surrender at that forlorn Virginia courthouse, today marvelously maintained by the National Park Service, we recognize that the scars of the Civil War are still with us. The Mason-Dixon Line divide still exists. Almost all the old Confederate States are now considered ``Red'' ( Republican ), while the Union States are ``blue'' ( Democrat ) -- a residual variation of Big Federal Government versus States' Rights paradigm of the Civil War era. While the old spiritual ``Slavery Chain Done Broke at Last'' was sung by blacks in the hours following the Appomattox surrender, racism sadly continues to be a crippling national scourge. While there no longer are beatings in Congress ( like in 1856 when Preston Brooks of South Carolina caned Charles Sumner of Massachusetts on the Congressional floor ) the gridlock on Capital Hill in 2015, the inability to get anything done, is similarly cold-cocking the spirit of our participatory democracy. All American eyes should be fixated on Appomattox today. The McLean house is our collective sanctuary of national healing. As a public place, the McLean parlor remains small but the legacy which Grant and Lee made at the truce table is timeless in world history. For while the scars of the monstrous Civil War still remain, the wounds have closed since 1865, in large part, because of the civility of Grant and Lee. With grace and dignity, these brave West Point generals gave righteous credence to Lincoln's ``with malice toward none'' finery.
( CNN ) A second individual has been charged with attempting to carry out an ``ISIS-inspired'' terror plot, Australian police say. Five young men were arrested Saturday in Melbourne, Australia, in what police called a major counterterrorism operation. Two of the teens, 18 and 19, have been released ``pending further inquiries,'' Australia's Federal Police said. Sevdet Besim, 18, was charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist act, and was denied bail Saturday. The person charged Monday is accused of conspiring to commit acts done in preparation for, or planning, terrorist acts. The suspects planned to attack during a major national commemoration in a week, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Saturday. ``The act that we believe was in preparation involved attacks against police officers,'' he said. There was also a risk to the public, police said. Police said the suspects were targeting a ceremony on Anzac Day ( Australia and New Zealand Army Corps Day ), which is April 25 and this year is the centennial of the Gallipoli Campaign in World War I. Abbott avoided the term ISIS -- or Islamic State -- to call out those who authorities believed influenced the suspects. He instead referred to the group as the ``Daesh death cult,'' employing the acronym that is transliterated from the group's name in Arabic. It's a handle ISIS is known to loathe. Police also distanced the suspects from any ethnic connection. The men ``are individuals acting by themselves. They are not representatives of any religious, cultural or national group,'' Victoria Police Acting Deputy Commissioner Shane Patton said. ``I think the entire Australian community should be concerned about the young age of those particular men,'' Neil Gaughan, acting deputy commissioner of the Australian Federal Police, said. ``And this is an issue not just with law enforcement, but for the broader community.. We need to get better in relation to identifying young men and woman involved in this type of behavior, at the very early stage.''. CNN's Ralph Ellis and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.
( CNN ) It's only June, but 2015 may be remembered as the year the term ``transgender'' fully entered mainstream consciousness. In January, President Obama condemned the persecution of ``people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender,'' becoming the first president to utter the word in a State of the Union address. ``Transparent,'' about an aging father who begins living as a woman, won two top awards at the Golden Globes, while transgender actress Laverne Cox of ``Orange is the New Black'' -- who made the cover of Time magazine last year -- was just cast in a new CBS drama. The May issue of Vogue has a photo spread with transgender model Andreja Pejic, who said on Instagram this week that she ``was told by various people many times over that the chances of me ending up on these pages were slim to none.'' A transgender character had a recurring storyline on the just-wrapped final season of ``Glee,'' while transgender activist and YouTube star Jazz Jennings will star in a reality show debuting on TLC this summer. And then there's Bruce Jenner, whose physical appearance has become more feminine in recent months as the Olympic hero turned reality TV star underwent a very public gender transition. Jenner ended months of speculation in an interview that aired April 24 on ``20/20'' with Diane Sawyer. ``Are you a woman ?'' Sawyer asked. ``Yes,'' Jenner replied. Now comes the new issue of Vanity Fair, with Jenner on the cover in makeup and a skimpy dress, along with a new name : Caitlyn. It's more obvious than ever that transgender people, long relegated to society's shadows, are finally stepping into the light. ``We are at a social inflection point on transgender issues,'' says Riki Wilchins, a former transgender activist and author of three books on queer theory, who believes all the attention could have a positive impact. ``Civil rights for minorities come in fits and starts. We're on an upswing now.''. Opinion : Why we need to listen to Bruce Jenner's story. Transgender is an umbrella term for people whose gender identity -- their internal, personal sense of being a man or a woman -- differs from what's typically associated with their sex at birth. Some transgender people alter their bodies through hormones and or surgery, although many don't. A 2011 study estimated that 700,000 American adults, or roughly 0.3 % of the population, identified themselves as transgender. For decades, trans people, as many transgender people like to be called, rarely saw themselves represented in popular culture. But recent years have brought the ``Dancing with the Stars'' contestant Chaz Bono ; filmmaker Lana Wachowski, formerly known as Larry Wachowski, a co-director of ``The Matrix'' ; Jared Leto's Oscar-winning role in ``Dallas Buyers Club'' ; and of course, ``Orange is the New Black,'' whose cast is a mix of ethnicities and sexualities. Now, between ``Transparent'' and other shows, recognition from Obama and tabloid headlines about Jenner, the national conversation around gender identity appears to have reached a new level. All this makes transgender advocates cautiously optimistic. Hayden Mora, deputy chief of staff at the Human Rights Campaign and a transgender man, remains hopeful that the growing number of transgender faces beaming weekly into America's living rooms can only have a positive effect. ``I believe that the more people who know transgender people, the more they will understand, accept and support us,'' Mora says. ``That happens only if they acknowledge our humanity, and not treat us like tabloid fodder.''. The transgender life : What to know, say and understand. Still, activists agree there's a long way to go before transgender people stop facing discrimination or worse. For relatives and friends who are used to seeing someone as male or female, gender changes can be hard to accept. Transgender people have long been misunderstood and persecuted -- as recently as 2012, the American Psychiatric Association classified them as having a mental ``disorder.''. A recent report by the Human Rights Campaign found that transgender people in the United States are more likely to face discrimination from employers and the effects of unemployment and poverty. Many also are denied services from safety-net providers such as emergency shelters. A poll last year found that 59 % of Americans believe transgender students should use the bathroom of their birth gender. In December, Attorney General Eric Holder announced that transgender people will receive federal protection from discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. But violence against trans people -- especially transgender women of color -- remains a national plague. According to recent statistics from the Human Rights Campaign, at least 13 transgender women were slain last year in the United States and at least seven have already been killed this year. Of those 20 victims, all but one were black or Latina. ``We are definitely in a critical moment for the trans movement. Over the last year we have.. seen an increase in visibility that was unimaginable even just a few years ago,'' said Kris Hayashi, executive director of the Transgender Law Center. ``At the same time it is clear that visibility is not enough.''. In one case that made national headlines, a transgender Ohio teen committed suicide in late December after her parents refused to acknowledge her wish to live as a girl. ``Transgender people are still subject to profound discrimination and violence,'' said Wilchins. ``Greater acceptance is really needed, and long overdue.''. When your young daughter says `I'm a boy'. So what impact will Bruce Jenner's story have on all this ?. Gender-rights activists are reluctant to speculate. Some fear the media firestorm around Jenner, fueled by ties to the camera-loving Kardashian clan, trivializes what is a wrenching personal journey for many people. ``You want to wish Bruce the best. But at the same time, you wish it wasn't being played out for reality-TV entertainment,'' said Wilchins, the gender-rights advocate. ``Yes, it's great that we're educating people. But we're talking about a civil rights issue that keeps getting recast as entertainment.''. As a much-hyped TV event, the Jenner interview gave millions of viewers their first exposure to gender-identity questions and put a sympathetic human face on an issue that remains perplexing to many people. But it could also trigger a backlash, some say. Amy Stone, associate professor of sociology and anthropology at Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas, fears Jenner could provoke those who already are averse to gay or transgender people. Such people ``tend to use these moments to frighten the general public, relying on fears about trans women in bathrooms or locker rooms,'' said Stone, author of numerous books about queer politics and culture. ``Usually these moments tap into pre-existing panics about gender or sexuality, not necessarily spawning new ones.''
Seoul, South Korea ( CNN ) Lee Min-bok didn't laugh once when he watched ``The Interview.'' The North Korean defector calls the Hollywood comedy ``vulgar,'' admitting he couldn't even watch the whole film. Yet he is still sending thousands of copies across the border from South to North Korea in balloons, determined his people will see the movie in which the leader Kim Jong Un is assassinated on screen. ``The regime hates this film because it shows Kim Jong Un as a man, not a God,'' says Lee. ``He cries and is afraid like us and then he's assassinated.''. Kim is portrayed in the movie as a Katy Perry-loving, sensitive soul with daddy issues, clashing with the all-powerful image beamed out by Pyongyang's tightly controlled state media and propaganda machine. At 1 a.m., Lee makes a final check of the wind speed and direction, then heads towards the border with North Korea. He has company. The South Korean police and military drive closely behind. After Pyongyang fired on similar propaganda balloons recently, they are monitoring launches very closely. This irritates Lee. ``We can help towards reunification with these balloons,'' says Lee. ``It costs millions of dollars to buy a F-22 fighter jet which the South Korean government insist they need and that's not for peaceful purposes. So why do civilians like me have to do this under cover of darkness ?''. At 3 a.m., Lee fills the balloons with helium and ties the bundles of DVDs, dollar bills and political leaflets to the bottom. A timer is attached which will release the bundle once safely in North Korean territory. He has no way of knowing what will happen to the goods after that. He doesn't know if ordinary North Koreans will watch the movie and read the leaflets. The fact that Pyongyang acts with fury against these so-called propaganda balloons suggests some information is seeping through to the hermit kingdom. ``If you tell the truth in North Korea, you die. But by using these balloons from here, I can tell the truth in safety,'' Lee adds. The decision to launch the balloons in the dead of night is not just to avoid confrontation with North Korea, but also with South Korea's local residents. After Pyongyang fired on balloons last October and South Korea returned fire, those living close to the border have been trying to physically stop the launches, arguing they are being put in the line of fire. The chances of at least some North Koreans having watched the film that North Korea sees as ``an act of terrorism'' is certainly possible.
( CNN ) This is week two of an ongoing series : A Catholic Reads the Bible This week covers the Book of Genesis, chapters 1-11. A week ago, I was worried I wouldn't have anything to write about. Now, I don't even know where to begin. The first step was choosing a Bible. I went with the version that I received for winning the religion award at Rice Memorial High School in South Burlington, Vermont. As I mentioned in the first installment of this series, I'm a lifelong Catholic who finally plans to read the Bible from cover to cover. The Bible I'm reading is ``The Deluxe Catholic Bible,'' published in 1986 by World Bible Publishing. After four days of reading this week, my journal is full of observations and ideas. With my crazy schedule, I found that reading at night was a perfect way to unwind and reflect. And as I started reading, I didn't want to stop. In order to fully process Scripture, I need to slow down and read the footnotes. Footnotes are my friend. First of all, Genesis starts with two separate creation narratives. How did I not know this ?. The first chapter is the seven days story with God creating the Earth. In the second chapter the Earth is again created and man is formed out of clay. Talking with a CNN colleague, I mentioned how there seems to be fascination in Genesis with dirt and clay. My colleague pointed out that even Adam's name is a play on the Hebrew word ``adama,'' meaning ground. It struck me that the whole first two chapters have everything to do with the Earth and man's place in it, a struggle that we can relate to even now. From the creation of the Garden of Eden to the fall and the banishment, the bounty of the land and the access to it seems to be the area of highest concern. My greatest surprise, though, came when I read about Seth. Seth ? Who ? I started asking people if they had remembered the story of Seth. My unscientific poll of friends is that 9 out 10 people I asked had no idea who he was. Turns out, Seth is the forgotten son of Adam and Eve who is born after Cain kills Abel. Adam fathered Seth at 130 years old. Yes, we are getting into the part of the Bible with fantastical life spans that allow for the transition from the stories of Adam to Abraham. ( Again, thank you footnotes ). Unfortunately, we don't learn much more about Seth. When he is mentioned, it's about his descendants. But, because this was my first biblical surprise, I will never forget him. Thank you, Seth. As a woman, though I was waiting to read more about the role of women. Did you know that Eve is the first person named in the Bible ? ( I expected Adam, but he is called ``man'' in the first references. ). Moving on, we have these tales about the ``sons of heaven'' seeing Earth's beautiful women and taking them as wives. Um ? What ? I had never heard that one before. I had to read that passage a few times and, again, the footnotes helped. They say the story is an inclusion from mythology. But why ? My first hunch is that it might have been a way to take a story that everyone knew at the time and make it part of a new narrative. Familiarity would lead to followers. Of course, many Christians don't cite the ``sons of heaven'' today because it would take too much time to explain. Maybe that's why I don't ever recall hearing this passage read at Mass.. With that in mind, I read about Noah, descendent of Seth, with a different perspective, too. I have never believed there was an ark. I never thought that God dictated the dimensions of the boat to save the animals two by two. It is a story told to make you realize the power of God. The explanation for the flood is that man had become more and more wicked, but I didn't expect, though, that God would ``regret'' creating man. Ouch ! It really makes the reader want to stay on God's good side. This ``wickedness'' of mankind and the ``regret'' from God sounds as if God made a mistake and decides to fix it, to start over, in essence. ``Never again will I doom the Earth because of man, since the desires of man are evil from the start..''. That phrase reminded me of my dad's favorite saying, ``To err is human but to forgive is divine,'' which comes from a Pope, but not a Catholic holy man. But enough about that, I have to get back to reading.
( CNN ) By the time Kim Kardashian set out to ``break the internet'' in November last year, a photo by 23-year-old Conor McDonnell had already got there -- with a little help from Kim's music superstar husband Kanye West. McDonnell is the self-taught photography star behind Instagram's most liked photo, showing the couple's embrace at their May wedding, which has earned more than 2.4 milllion ``likes'' to date. The Liverpool native has had a breakneck rise to success since his first Instagram post in November 2011, snapping the likes of Drake, Justin Bieber, One Direction, Mumford & Sons, Snoop Dogg, and Red Hot Chili Peppers, while traveling the world on private planes. Lasting relationships with stars Ellie Goulding and Rita Ora have followed, and candid snaps of the photographer's globetrotting, access-all-areas life have seen him accumulate over 25,000 followers on his personal account. Not bad for someone who told CNN Ones to Watch he started photography ``by accident.''. Fresh from accompanying Calvin Harris on tour in South America, McDonnell shares his five top tips for anyone who wants to grow their Instagram fan base and take great photos on the go. From finding the right lighting, to which filter to chose : play the Instagram videos below to find out how to supercharge your pictures for social media success. ``Good lighting for me makes a shot. If I'm taking a portrait of someone, I'd much prefer to use natural lighting than a light bulb or manufactured lighting !''. ``I make use of the rule of thirds quite a lot : if you imagine the screen split up in three thirds, you place the subject in one corner. There's a lot you can find about it on the internet.''. ``There's a patch here of very bright light and just behind it there's dark. Trying to expose it right can be tricky but on the iPhone you can do it quite well just by tapping the screen and dragging the exposure up and down.''. ``I'll upload a photo to an app called Snapseed, edit the brightness and contrast in that a little bit, export it. And then open in another app called VSCO Cam, which is my favorite app on my whole phone.''. ``On VSCO Cam there's tons of filters, the one I use the most is probably ``P5,'' then I can edit all sorts.. And once I'm done I just export it and post it on Instagram.''. ``I know photographers who use a lot of hashtags, and hashtags can work if you want to build up your follower base, because a lot more people will probably see a photo than if you didn't hashtag it.''
London ( CNN ) If you're hunting for the earliest galaxies and clues about potential life on other planets you are going to need a very big mirror and a golf ball of gold. They are both necessary for the construction of The James Webb Space Telescope ( JWST ), intended as the successor to the Hubble instrument that has been operating in space for 25 years. It's going to be a tough act to follow. Hubble has returned spectacular images during the past quarter century but also helped scientists discover that almost every galaxy has a massive black hole at its heart and that the expansion of the universe is speeding up. But there are limits to how far it can see. Now scientists are working on an alternative way to peer into the past and search space for signs of life with JWST -- scheduled to launch in October 2018 on an Ariane 5 rocket from French Guiana. NASA spokesperson Lynn Chandler told CNN that the mission was like opening up the curtains on the universe and peering inside. ``Hubble rewrote the text books and we're planning to rewrite the text books again,'' she said. ``JWST will answer the questions which at the moment we can't think to ask.''. The Webb telescope is a big probe. Hubble is about the size of a school bus but JWST is as big as a tennis court. There isn't a rocket currently capable of carrying that so as Chandler explained : ``It has to be folded up like a flower and then unfurled like a transformer.''. Named after James E. Webb, a former NASA leader, JWST is being designed to study the first stars and galaxies that formed in the early universe. NASA says that to see these objects the telescope will have to detect objects which are 10 to 100 times fainter than Hubble can currently see. Instead of studying visible and ultraviolet light like Hubble, the JWST will work in the infra-red spectrum, allowing scientists to detect more distant targets. The new telescope requires a huge mirror of 25 square meters ( about 270 square feet ) -- and a golf ball of gold ( about 48 grams or 1.7 ounces ) to optimize it for infra-red light. It is then coated with glass. But technology like this doesn't come cheap. According to NASA, the mission, which is in collaboration with the European Space Agency ( ESA ) and the Canadian Space Agency ( CSA ) and involves a total of 14 countries, will cost $ 8.5 billion. NASA says that the project has four main goals -- namely, to search for the first galaxies formed after the Big Bang, find out how galaxies evolved, observe the birth of stars and planets and investigate the potential for life on other planets. Scientists hope the telescope will be able to tell us more about objects that formed 13 billion years ago -- about 700-800 million years after the Big Bang. But closer to home, scientists also believe the new telescope will able to detect planets around nearby stars. NASA says JWST should be able to operate for between five and 10 years, restricted only by the amount of fuel it has to maintain orbit and the ability of the electronics to stand up to the harsh space environment. Opinion : Why astronomy counts on Earth.
( CNN ) The Arizona police officer who slammed into an armed suspect with his patrol car told investigators he thought he was too far to take a shot at the man, so he chose the other option, CNN affiliate KVOA reported Wednesday. Officer Michael Rapiejko ran his car into Mario Valencia in February as the suspect carried a rifle he had just fired in the air. Rapiejko sped around another officer as Valencia walked through a business park, hit the man from behind with the left side of his front bumper. Valencia, who flew through this air, survived and faces more than a dozen charges for an alleged crime spree that day. His lawyer has said police used excessive force and could have killed a man who was obviously unstable. The Marana Police Department has defended Rapiejko, saying deadly force was warranted because the suspect had a rifle, ammunition and was walking toward offices where hundreds of people work. Marana is just northwest of Tucson. Officer who drove into suspect justified, chief says. KVOA obtained police inquiry tapes on which Rapiejko tells investigators why he chose his car as a weapon. The officer, who has been a cop for more than a decade but joined the Marana Police Department in 2014, said he was 50 yards away from the suspect and worried a missed shot might hit another officer or bystanders. ``There were occupied businesses, and there were two officers at the other side of the street,'' he says on the recording. ``This is what I deem as a lethal force encounter. I have two thoughts that go in my mind : I need to shoot him to stop the threat, or I need to run him over to stop the threat.''. Another officer, who was slowing trailing Valencia and ahead of Rapiejko, says on another recording that if a civilian had stumbled upon Valencia, the suspect might have taken a hostage or killed the person. Video of the car striking Valencia sparking nationwide debate on what type of force police should use to go after armed suspects. Many people commended the officer. Some people said the police should have set up a perimeter around the man and talked him into surrendering. Valencia faces 15 charges, including three counts of aggravated assault, three counts of armed robbery and possession of a deadly weapon by a prohibited possessor. Valencia's attorney, Michelle Cohen-Metzger, told CNN last week that ``it is miraculous that my client isn't dead.''. Valencia, who is in Pima County Jail, is scheduled to appear in court again on May 18. Authorities chose not to charge Rapiejko. Officer who drove into suspect subject of excessive force lawsuit in New York. CNN's Shane Deitert and Tony Marco contributed to this report.
( CNN ) She could stand on a strand of human hair, with room to spare. The microscopic polymer statue by South African sculptor Jonty Hurwitz, entitled Trust, measured just 1/100th of a centimeter and had been called the ``smallest sculpture ever made.''. But the world's tiniest woman suddenly disappeared to an unknown location, likely never to be seen again. While she was being photographed through an electron microscope -- the only way to view the minute creation -- Trust vanished, with only a smudged fingerprint left behind by her photographer as a clue. After an hour long search, Hurwitz and the photographer gave in : ``It was horror. I remember saying to him : `You just destroyed or lost the smallest human form that was ever created in history,' said Hurwitz to CNN Ones to Watch. ``It was gone.''. But was it, really ?. Hurwitz is an entrepreneur-turned-artist who has applied the same tech wizardry to sculpture that he put into coding a finance site valued at over $ 500 million. The 45-year-old's ``Nano-sculptures'' are made from a mysterious resin -- ``a big scientific secret'', says Hurwitz -- and created through a process called ``two-photon lithography.''. Hurwitz works with a team of nanotechnology engineers at Karlsruhe University, who focus beams of ultraviolet light to ``zap'' solid the liquid resin, one 3D pixel at a time. The resulting sculptures -- he has also created a statue depicting the classical myth of Cupid and Psyche -- can lie on an ant's head. Put one into the eye of a needle, and it will barely occupy one corner. The ``Nano'' project is just one of Hurwitz' science-inspired sculptural experiments. Another one explores the properties of the mathematical constant Pi, presenting an indecipherable, ``anamorphic'' physical sculpture, whose hidden form becomes clear only when reflected in a cylindrical mirror. And he hints that a forthcoming project will also be influenced by his love of the natural world, but will sit at the opposite end of the scale to his nano-models. Hurwitz, who first made his name as the UK-based co-founder of controversial ``payday'' loans business Wonga, says he makes visual art with a team, as in traditionally collaborative art forms, such as cinema. He discusses accumulating collaborators as an aggressive start-up accumulates new talent :. ``I spent a huge amount of time scouring the world for amazing achievements of humanity and contact these people to work with them. For me the creation of an artwork these days is analogous to the creation of a film : for each piece there may 20 people involved, each one brilliant in their field.''. Hurwitz makes no secret of his desire to bring together contemporary science and art -- delighting in the fact that his nano-scale and 3D printed pieces depend on cutting edge technology, and would have been unimaginable just 10 years ago. Online, fans response has been overwhelming, he says, and the internet has become his exhibition space. It provides an ``epic scale'' that brick-and-mortar galleries can't match, he says, and estimates 13 million people have seen his sculptures since they hit the web in November last year. ``I love the buzz. I love the buzz when I launch a piece on the Internet and on Google Analytics, you suddenly see society engaging.. millions and millions of people engaging.''. ``You put a few images on the internet and just watch society consume, engage and think. With comments and blogs and people saying `It's not art' and people working out the science behind it and people complaining.. I just love that buzz ! I love influencing society.''. There's also another side -- what Hurwitz calls ``the traditional side of the geeky art world'' -- accusing him of being just an engineer rather than an artist. But he's unapologetic :. ``A lot of the artistic expression that I bring to the world represents the absolute current moment in human development. Whether it's 3D printing, technology or science, I love to represent the now.''. Hurwitz says the creation of the physical artwork is ``just the beginning of its lifecycle.''. So what about the missing woman, whose lifecycle has tragically been cut short ?. She came back to life during the filming of CNN Ones to Watch ( in the video above ) -- Trust v. 2, her new name, has taken the absent dancer's place. Even still, there are some who think neither dancer was ever there. Invisible to the naked eye, how can we trust this sculpture ever existed beyond the computer screen ?. For Hurwitz, this mystery gets right to the heart of nano-scale's appeal :. ``You've got this'em peror's new clothes' element to this end of the scale spectrum, because you look at these nano-sculptures and there's nothing there, there's an element of me going : `this sculpture.. believe me, it's there.'. ``At that scale, the sculpture doesn't really exist, or our perception doesn't allow us to perceive its existence. ``In a way, it challenges the whole idea of contemporary art, by asking : `Hang on, a piece of art you can't really see, is it really a piece of art ?'''
( CNN ) They were huddled in the back of a tugboat. Some were without shoes. Their coats and jackets, still wet, were piled up in a huge container behind them. The 117 migrants, mostly from sub-Saharan Africa, arrived in the port of Augusta, Sicily, around 1p. m. Tuesday, after being picked up by the tugboat off the coast of Libya. The two boats they had been in were barely seaworthy, the tug's Montenegrin captain told me. The discarded coats, he said, would be thrown away. We had flown to Sicily from Rome following news that as many as 400 migrants had been lost at sea. The tragedy adds to the mounting death toll among those fleeing war and poverty in Africa and the Middle East. So far this year as many as 900 have lost their lives. Last year at least 3,200 died making the journey. Since 2000, according to the International Organization for Migration ( IOM ), almost 22,000 people have died fleeing across the Mediterranean. Thousands may have died, but even more have succeeded in making the treacherous journey. This small group in Augusta were among nearly 10,000 migrants who have arrived on Italian shores since the weekend, according to the Italian Coast Guard. With the onset of spring and calmer seas, it appears that the flow of migrants is not relenting. The group, which included 31 women, was composed mostly of Nigerians and Gambians. As they filed off the boat, representatives of the Italian Red Cross did a quick visual inspection, checking for fever, scabies, any sign of illness. One woman, they discovered, was two months pregnant. Timothy, in his mid-20s from Nigeria, told me he left his home nine months ago. He paid human traffickers in Tripoli 1,000 Libyan dinars, more than $ 700, for the voyage. For him, it's a fortune. I asked 28-year-old Jibril, from Gambia, why he had left his home. ``It's not like in Europe,'' he told me. ``After 20, 25 years, you have to make a future for yourself. But in Gambia, I couldn't. My family, they don't have nothing. They are poor people.''. Mercy, from Kano in northern Nigeria, seemed shell-shocked. In a faint voice she told me she had left Kano because her family feared she that would be taken by Boko Haram. ``I was scared,'' 25-year-old Al-Haji from Gambia told me about the journey from Libya. ``I was taking a big risk. Either I enter Europe or I die.''. Another man, from Liberia, told me he had lived and worked in Libya for 15 years, but was terrified at the prospect of ISIS gaining even more territory. An Egyptian translator working for the Italian police told me they had information that a large group of Syrians were gathered in a Tripoli warehouse, and were expected to make the journey to Italy in the coming days. It seems that all the victims of the multiple tragedies and woes of Africa and the Middle East -- grinding poverty, war and the rise of ISIS -- are washing up on the shores of Italy. The wars, unrest, upheaval, misery and injustice I've covered over the last 20 years, in Syria, in Libya, in West Africa and elsewhere, seem to be coming together to remind those who have enjoyed Europe's relative peace and prosperity that no man is an island. The small group of migrants in Augusta has been taken in by the Italian authorities. They've been fed, clothed, received medical treatment, and will be taken to migrant camp in northern Italy. Most will then try move further north, to countries like France, Belgium, the Netherlands and the UK, where economic opportunities are better than in austerity-wracked Italy. Others will stay in Italy, trying to eke out a living in the twilight economy as street vendors and beggars. And as they settle in, somehow or other, more and more will come to Italy's shores.
( CNN ) It would have made Thomas Jefferson proud. Established on the birthday of the American founding father, Liberland -- the world's newest micronation -- is founded on a firm belief in liberty and noninterference from the powers-that-be. A tiny, 7 square-kilometer parcel of land, marked on maps as Gornja Siga, its territory abuts the Danube on the border between Serbia and Croatia. The victim of a border dispute between Serbia and Croatia, it is claimed by neither side -- effectively a no-man's land. No one lives on this patch of land, which is heavily forested and contains only badly-maintained access roads and a run-down house, abandoned for decades. This is where Euroskeptic Czech politician Vit Jedlicka stepped in. On April 13 he planted his newly-designed yellow and black flag in the territory, declaring the area the Free Republic of Liberland -- a tiny sliver of a country, bigger only than the Vatican and Monaco. He tells CNN that the country will be formally founded on May 1 and is inviting, through the media, the world's heads of state to attend a formal ceremony marking the presumptive nation's birth. He says that he will also invite 7,500 of the 300,000 applicants that applied to become citizens of Liberland to the ceremony, where he will grant them citizenship. ``I will grant citizenship if they can make it to the party,'' he told CNN by phone. ``It's short notice but a good challenge, and also for the presidents ( and other heads of state ) if they can make it to the founding of our country.''. Jedlicka, an active member of the Czech Republic's Party of Free Citizens, opposes excessive government interference. He says his attempts to enact change in his home country led him to the political experiment that is Liberland. ``I would describe it as a global revolution. It's just the beginning,'' he tells CNN via Skype. Founded on staunchly libertarian principles -- its motto is ``To live and let live'' -- its website describes its system of governance as being a ``constitutional republic with elements of direct democracy.''. It will use a form of cryptocurrency -- similar to Bitcoin -- as its national currency, bypassing the need for a central bank and will, according to its constitution, keep government's noses out of everything possible, from the banks to prostitution. ``Liberland prides itself on personal and economic freedom of its people, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, which significantly limits the power of politicians so they could not interfere too much in the freedoms of the Liberland nation,'' the world's newest constitutional document states. Financial regulation will be minimal, if at all present. Jedlicka says almost 300,000 applications for citizenship have been received, about 20 of which have been accepted. ``Thousands of Americans, Swiss people. Also a lot of Arabic peoples who feel oppressed by the regimes there.''. He envisions, ultimately, a community of around 35,000 Liberlanders, not all of whom will be full-time residents. He says he expects trouble from his neighbors, whose land he has effectively annexed. ``From Serbia, Croatia, we expect some trouble but we expect international laws will applied and any movement against us would be an attack on a sovereign nation, and we will offer nothing but passive resistance. For now, ( though ) we will make roads, docks.''. For its part, the Serbian Ministry of Foreign Affairs released a statement to CNN that stated that Liberland would not theoretically impinge upon its border, which is delineated by the Danube, but ``the Ministry also considers this a frivolous act which needs no further comment.''. Croatia's counterpart was similarly dismissive. ``Virtual quips, however interesting they occasionally sound, remain what they are -- virtual quips, and for them we have no official comment.''
Ol Pejeta Conservancy, Kenya ( CNN ) At first glance, Sudan looks like any other northern white rhino : stout and agile, with square lips. He grazes under the hot sun, his massive head lowered to the ground, at the Ol Pejeta Conservancy in central Kenya. When he's not wallowing in his enclosure, he waddles around the sprawling savannah, stopping briefly to drink water from a concrete hole. But Sudan is not just any rhino. He's the last known male northern white rhino left in the entire world. For an animal on the verge of extinction, the fate of the subspecies rests on his ability to conceive with the two female northern white rhinos at the conservancy. Sudan's female companions, Fatu and Najin, live at the conservancy, where experts are scrambling to ensure the subspecies does not go extinct. The animals are under 24-hour protection by armed guards. Rhinos are targeted by poachers, fueled by the belief in Asia that their horns cure various ailments. Experts say the rhino horn is becoming more lucrative than drugs. In addition to round-the-clock security, the conservancy has put radio transmitters on the animals and dispatches incognito rangers into neighboring communities to gather intelligence on poaching. The conservancy is also raising funds to help equip and train rangers who guard the rhinos. At 42, Sudan is elderly in rhino years. Fatu, 15, is a spring chicken, while Najin is 25. Though the three northern white rhinos are physiologically healthy, age might be a factor, says George Paul, the deputy veterinarian at the conservancy. ``Sudan is currently old and may not be able to naturally mount and mate with a female,'' he says. In addition, he has a low sperm count, which complicates natural and scientific efforts, experts say. Najin could conceive, but her hind legs are so weak, she may be unable to support a mounted male. ``There has been recorded mating between different pairs over the last few years, but not conceptions,'' Paul says. ``Based on a recent health examination conducted, both animals have a regular estrus cycle, but no conception has been recorded.''. And if one is not recorded soon, the beloved animal will go extinct. Rhinos on a plane : Life-saving mission across borders. In a race against time, international experts are resorting to science to try to sustain the subspecies. The northern white rhino can not mate with a black rhino, but there is a chance it could mate with a southern white rhino, Paul says. While southern white rhinos are not endangered -- Ol Pejeta has 19 -- they are a different subspecies from the northern white rhino genetically. Though the offspring would not be 100 % northern white rhino, it would be better than nothing, experts say. A committee at the conservancy is also looking at various alternative reproduction techniques, including in vitro fertilization. ``In other countries, success has been achieved with embryo transfer in a different rhino species, thus that, as a technique, can be presupposed to be the most promising,'' Paul says. ``However, consultations are ongoing amongst different reproductive technique experts on the way forward.''. Bringing rhinos back to Uganda, one calf at a time. The need to preserve the northern white rhino is dire. ``Realistically, we are looking at these animals dying in the next decade or so. But hopefully, using artificial methods of reproduction, we might be able to bring them back in the future,'' Paul says. ``This might mean that it will happen when the current animals are already deceased, but it could happen.''. The conservancy acquired the northern white rhinos -- two males and two females -- in 2009 from a zoo in the Czech Republic. Suni, the other male northern white rhino at the conservancy, died last year. In another incident, another male, Angalifu, died at the San Diego Zoo last year, bringing the subspecies closer to extinction. There are no known northern white rhinos left in the wild. A total of five remain in captivity worldwide : three in Kenya, and one each at zoos in San Diego and the Czech Republic. But Sudan, a male, is in a company of one. 11 wildlife experiences that could vanish in your lifetime.
( CNN ) When drinkers in Clayton's, a beachfront bar in South Padre Island, Texas, belly up for a round of shots, bartender Casey Belue can usually guess what they'll order. It comes in a yellow-labeled bottle with a fire-breathing demon on it. It tastes like Big Red chewing gum. It's Fireball Cinnamon Whisky, and lately it's been as hot as its name. ``Fireball is number one, definitely. That's pretty much the chosen shot,'' said Belue, who enjoys it herself now and then. ``On an average night, we probably go through three or four bottles.''. If you're young -- say, under 35 -- this may not be news to you. Fireball, which didn't exist in its current form a decade ago, is the fastest-growing big brand of liquor in America. Retail sales more than doubled last year, and Fireball has come seemingly out of nowhere to become the sixth-most popular liquor brand in the U.S. as measured by retail sales -- ahead of such venerable labels as Jim Beam, Jose Cuervo and Grey Goose. And these figures don't include sales in bars, where Fireball has dethroned Jagermeister as America's party shot of choice. Or social media feeds, which fill with photos of Fireball-flavored revelry and #FireballFriday hashtags. ``Fireball is an incredible phenomenon. The growth of it has just been astounding,'' said Lew Bryson, managing editor of Whisky Advocate and author of several books on whiskey and other spirits. ``For a whiskey, this is unprecedented.''. To the uninitiated, Fireball is basically made from Canadian whisky, aged in used bourbon barrels, flavored with sweetener and spicy cinnamon. ( The ``whisky'' spelling generally refers to Scotches or Canadian varieties, while ``whiskey'' refers to Irish or American styles. ). Its slogan is ``Tastes like heaven, burns like hell,'' but that's an exaggeration. Fireball has a kick, but it doesn't burn as much as straight whiskeys, cheap tequilas or even the Atomic Fireball hard candy that helped inspire its name. It's also only 66 proof, or 33 % alcohol -- less than most whiskeys. ``It's so easy to drink that you forget you're drinking alcohol. It's very sweet. You hardly taste the whiskey at all,'' said Zachary Jones, a bartender at Community Smith in Atlanta. ``I've known people who can't do shots, but they can do Fireball.''. Fireball is especially popular among young drinkers and women, many of whom say they like that it doesn't singe their throat and leaves a Dentyne-like aftertaste. But not everyone is a fan. Whiskey enthusiasts -- the types who can talk knowledgeably about single-malt Scotches -- mostly turn up their noses at the stuff. ``I've got to be honest : It's not anything I'd reach for, at any occasion,'' Bryson said. ``But clearly I'm not in the mainstream.''. Fireball wasn't always Fireball. It used to be known as Dr. McGillicuddy's Fireball Whisky before its maker, the Sazerac Co., rebranded it in 2006. Sales were modest until about five years ago, when Sazerac hired a ``national brand ambassador,'' Richard Pomes, to spread the word about Fireball through event planning and bartender outreach. In other words, Pomes traveled the country serving up Fireball shots in bars. He started in college towns and cities with vibrant bar cultures, such as Austin and Nashville, and then spread to other places. Everywhere he went, Pomes shared his Fireballing exploits on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram and encouraged patrons to do the same. Soon, Fireball started gaining traction. Then it exploded. Retail sales jumped from just under $ 2 million in 2011 to $ 63 million in 2013 to $ 130 million last year, according to IRI, a Chicago-based market research firm. Along the way, Sazerac has cultivated a party-hearty social ethos around Fireball, encouraging pics of shots with hashtags such as #WhiskyWednesday. The brand has more than 85,000 followers on Twitter and another 43,000 on Instagram -- more than twice the social reach of Jagermeister -- although on Twitter, it still trails Jack Daniel's whiskey and Patron tequila. And it got a boost in October when someone taped a GoPro camera to a large bottle of the liquor and filmed dozens of guests chugging from it at a wedding reception. The resulting video has more than 2.3 million YouTube views. ``Our fans love it, and they spread the word. The Fireball nation is devoted -- and this is the best kind of marketing,'' said Amy Preske, public relations and events manager for Sazerac, who declined to offer any further explanation for the brand's booming popularity. ``We are very excited and humbled.''. So is Fireball a future cornerstone of every well-stocked bar or just a fad ?. It may be too soon to say. Retail sales remain strong, according to IRI, although Fireball's skyrocketing growth has slowed in recent months. But it's under siege from several fronts. The past year has brought copycats Jim Beam Kentucky Fire and Jack Daniels Tennessee Fire, both bourbon whiskeys infused with spicy cinnamon syrup, along with cinnamon vodkas, cinnamon tequilas and other cinnamon liqueurs. Fireball also endured a public-relations mess last fall when several European countries briefly recalled the liquor over concerns about one of its ingredients : propylene glycol, a chemical used in a variety of food products, e-cigarettes and antifreeze. Sazerac responded that propylene glycol exists in Fireball ``in very small quantities'' -- less than 1/8th of the amount allowed by the FDA ( PDF ) -- and reassured customers that Fireball is ``absolutely safe to drink.''. Then there's the question of whether Fireball will become a victim of its own success. Young consumers are notoriously fickle, and there is anecdotal evidence that some people are getting sick of it. ``It just reached a point where I couldn't drink it anymore,'' said Jones, the Atlanta bartender. ``I think it was the sugar.''. Still, its popularity remains on display nightly wherever young people gather. Glasses are raised, someone makes a toast, and down go shots of an orange, syrupy and seemingly unstoppable concoction. ``It's an easy shot. You can drink a lot of them. With Fireball, you don't need a chaser,'' said Kelvin Davis, a bartender at the Nook in Atlanta. ``It's the one thing I can throw out there and it never fails.''
Kabul, Afghanistan ( CNN ) A suicide bomber detonated his explosives near a group of protesters in eastern Afghanistan on Thursday, killing 17 people and wounding dozens more, police said. An Afghan lawmaker taking part in the protests in the city of Khost was among the 64 people wounded, said Faizullah Ghairat, the provincial police chief. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid denied his group was responsible for the attack. No other organization has so far claimed responsibility. Humayoon Humayoon, an Afghan member of parliament for Khost province, and the other protesters were on their way to join a larger rally against the provincial governor, according to Zahir Jan, an eyewitness. The suicide attack hit the group around 10 a.m. local time, police said. CNN's Masoud Popalzai reported from Kabul, and Jethro Mullen wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Elizabeth Joseph contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Discovery of the body of a young girl who may have been dead for weeks has led to the arrest of her teen sister -- herself a mother -- and a search for the girls' parents, who may be in California with five other children, police in North Las Vegas, Nevada, said. The investigation began Wednesday when the 4-month-old infant of the 17-year-old was taken to Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center in suburban Las Vegas, authorities said. Police arrested the teen mother on one count of child abuse with substantial bodily harm. She was taken to a juvenile facility. Police department spokesman Aaron Patty told CNN affiliate KVVU that the ``infant did not receive the proper care and nourishment that she needed at the time, which is what led to the arrest of the 17-year-old.''. A day later, a search warrant was served at the family's home. That's when police found the body of the 3-year-old girl, who had apparently been dead ``for at least a few weeks,'' according to police. The teen mother was then arrested on one count of child abuse with death in connection with her younger sister's death, according to a police statement. The parents left the home several months ago with the other five children, ranging in age from 1 to 9 years old, but, according to Patty, ``they left the 3-year-old child and the 17-year-old sister at the residence alone.''. Authorities are seeking the parents, 39-year-old Jondrew Lachaux and 38-year-old Kellie Phillips. Police say the five children with them may be in danger. ``We believe that they went to California at some time and may have gone back and forth during this multiple month process when they left,'' Patty said. No Amber Alert was issued, according to police, because the 4-month-old did not die. Lachaux and Phillips, who are the child's grandparents, are being sought for questioning. ``We are asking for the assistance of the public in locating these two individuals,'' said Patty. ``We believe they can answer many questions on what led up to the death of this child.''. The 4-month-old infant was last reported to be hospitalized in critical condition. Her mother's name was not disclosed.
Boston ( CNN ) After weeks of dramatic testimony, jurors are set to begin deliberations Tuesday in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who faces life in prison or the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon. The defense and prosecution made closing arguments in the case on Monday. ``The defendant brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets,'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Aloke Chakravarty said. ``The defendant thought that his values were more important than the people around him. He wanted to awake the mujahideen, the holy warriors, so he chose Patriots Day, Marathon Monday,'' a time for families to gather and watch the marathon. Bomb survivors and victims' family members wiped away tears and comforted each other in court. Tsarnaev fidgeted at the defense table as he has done throughout the trial. Bill Richard, father of 8-year-old bomb victim Martin Richard, craned his neck to watch Tsarnaev as the prosecutor spoke. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ``chose a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston,'' Chakravarty said. ``He chose a day when there would be civilians on the sidewalks and he targeted those civilians : men, women and children.''. The lawyer waited a beat. ``He wanted to terrorize this country. He wanted to punish America for what it was doing to his people.''. The prosecutor showed a picture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan in the marathon crowd. The day of the bombings, Chakravarty said, ``they felt they were soldiers. They were the mujahideen and they were bringing their battle to Boston.''. Tsarnaev, 21 years old, stands accused of 30 counts, including setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event as an act of terrorism. Seventeen of those counts carry a sentence of death or life imprisonment. If Tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one of the 17 capital counts, the trial will proceed to a second phase, the so-called penalty phase. That part of the trial will include evidence of aggravating and mitigating factors, and the jury will be asked to weigh elements that make this crime especially heinous against details from Tsarnaev's background and mental health history that would weigh in his favor. Since testimony began on March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. It seemed a mismatch from the start. ``He was there,'' defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life. The prosecution on Monday played a graphic video of the scene of the bombing that showed a chaotic, bloody scene with injured people everywhere. A child's piercing cries are heard. It's the son of Rebekah Gregory, who lost her leg. Then, another photo is displayed. This time jurors see Tsarnaev standing by a tree behind the family of little Martin Richard. ``These children weren't innocent to him,'' the prosecutor said. ``They were American. He knew what that bag was designed to do.''. Chakravarty quoted Bill Richard, Martin's father, who earlier testified, ``I guess we were just unlucky that day.''. But luck had nothing to do with the Boston bombings, the prosecutor said. ``This was a cold, intentional, terrorist act,'' he said. The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, ``to make a point. To tell America, `We won't be terrorized by you anymore. We will terrorize you.'''. The defense has maintained that Tsarnaev, who was 19 and flunking out of college at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, fell under the sway of his older, more radicalized brother. ``It was Tamerlan,'' defense attorney Clarke repeated during her closing argument Monday. ``In the past few weeks we have come face to face with tragedy, suffering and grief in dimensions none of us could imagine,'' she said. ``We've heard words, we've heard screams and we've heard cries. For this suffering and pain there is no excuse.''. She acknowledged her client participated in a ``senseless act.''. But he was only following his brother, she insisted. ``If not for Tamerlan, it would not have happened,'' Clarke argued. The older brother, a 26-year-old former Golden Gloves boxer, had hoped to wage jihad and his slacker younger brother was just along for the ride, the defense has said. During the 15-minute rebuttal period, prosecutor William Weinreb told jurors not to be distracted by the defense's ``attempt to point the finger at somebody else.''. ``There should be no doubt in your mind that the defendant and his brother are equally guilty,'' he said. They were ``partners in crime.''. Weinreb pointed out that after the bombing Tsarnaev went to the grocery store. ``Tamerlan Tsarnaev didn't turn his brother into a murderer. To shred the bodies of women and children with a homemade type of bomb, you have to be different from other people,'' the prosecutor said. If you are capable of such hate, such callousness that you can murder and maim 20 people and then drive to Whole Foods and buy some milk, can you really blame it on your brother ?''. From the start, prosecutors presented a compelling case in which the horrors of April 15 to 19, 2013, were vividly brought to life once again. They began with the stories of bombing survivors and first responders, who described acts of courage and compassion amid madness and chaos. The final moments of the three Boston Marathon spectators who died were recounted by the people who were by their sides. According to testimony, Tamerlan Tsarnaev set off a bomb made from a 6-quart pressure cooker, explosive powder from fireworks, duct tape, nails and BBs on Boylston Street near the finish line. That bomb, which exploded near Marathon Sports, claimed the life of Krystle Campbell, a 29-yeaer-old restaurant manager. Twelve seconds later, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev allegedly detonated a second, similar bomb outside the Forum restaurant, slightly more than a block away. That blast killed the boy, Martin Richard, and Lingzi Lu, 23, a graduate student from China. Chakravarty's voice grew soft Monday as he recalled the victims :. Richard's 69-pound body ``was shattered, broken, eviscerated, burned. There wasn't a part of this boy's body that wasn't destroyed.''. Lu ``received blast injuries all over her body. Her leg was torn open and she bled out.''. Krystle Campbell died in less than a minute from ``massive blast injuries to her lower extremities. Parts of her body were shredded.''. Sean Collier, the MIT campus police officer killed three days after the bombings, ``never had a chance.'' He was shot between the eyes. ``They assassinated him.''. The brothers allegedly killed the 26-year-old officier for his service weapon but couldn't pry it loose from a safety holster. Dun Meng told the jury about his frightening 90 minutes with two carjackers, one who admitted being involved in the marathon bombing. He identified that person as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Police fired 210 rounds at the brothers when they tracked a GPS device in Meng's stolen Mercedes and cornered them in Watertown, Massachusetts. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev struck Tamerlan, who was wounded, when he charged police in the car. Tamerlan died of his injuries. ``Tamerlan wanted suicide by cop,'' the prosecutor said Monday. ``He was ready for heaven. But the defendant had other plans.''. Dzhokhar ditched the stolen car and sought shelter in a dry-docked boat parked in a trailer in a backyard in Watertown. As he hid, he used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called a ``manifesto,'' in which he said he was jealous of his brother for dying as a martyr and reaching paradise. He also lashed out at the United States for policies he said killed Muslims, writing, ``I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished. We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all.''. Federal prosecutors also presented evidence gleaned from searches of the brothers' computers, including militant literature written by top al Qaeda leaders. And they traced the purchase of the pressure cookers, ammunition and BBs, which appeared to have been made by Tamerlan. Boston Marathon Terror Attack Fast Facts.
Boston ( CNN ) After weeks of dramatic and emotionally wrenching testimony in the Boston Marathon bombing trial, jurors deliberated for more than seven hours Tuesday. But they haven't reached a verdict yet. The jurors sent out two questions, which are scheduled to be addressed when they return to court Wednesday morning. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 21-year-old accused Boston Marathon bomber, faces life in prison or the death penalty. On Monday, the jury saw a video of the moment a bomb exploded and disemboweled an 8-year-old boy and ripped the leg off his sister. The blast killed a 23-year-old graduate student from China. The jurors heard more horror from April 15, 2013. At one point, prosecutors played a video that showed the scene after a bomb exploded -- blood and injured victims everywhere and the sounds of a child howling. His mother lost her leg. ``The defendant brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets,'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Aloke Chakravarty said. ``The defendant thought that his values were more important than the people around him. He wanted to awake the mujahedeen, the holy warriors, so he chose Patriots' Day, Marathon Monday,'' a time for families to gather and watch the marathon. Tsarnaev's defense attorney Judy Clarke tried to persuade jurors that her client's older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a shootout with police days after the terror attack, was the instigator of the marathon plot. The younger man, Clarke said, was only following his older brother. ``If not for Tamerlan, it would not have happened,'' Clarke argued. Bomb survivors and victims' family members wiped away tears and comforted one another in court. Tsarnaev fidgeted at the defense table as he has done throughout the trial. Bill Richard, father of bomb victim Martin Richard, 8, craned his neck to watch Tsarnaev as the prosecutor spoke. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ``chose a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston,'' Chakravarty said. ``He chose a day when there would be civilians on the sidewalks, and he targeted those civilians : men, women and children.''. The lawyer waited a beat. ``He wanted to terrorize this country. He wanted to punish America for what it was doing to his people.''. The prosecutor showed a picture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, in the marathon crowd. The day of the bombings, Chakravarty said, ``they felt they were soldiers. They were the mujahedeen and they were bringing their battle to Boston.''. Tsarnaev is accused of 30 counts, including setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event as an act of terrorism. Seventeen of those counts carry a sentence of death or life imprisonment. If Tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one of the 17 capital counts, the trial will proceed to a second phase, the so-called penalty phase. That part of the trial will include evidence of aggravating and mitigating factors, and the jury will be asked to weigh elements that make this crime especially heinous against details from Tsarnaev's background and mental health history that would weigh in his favor. Since testimony began March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. It seemed a mismatch from the start. ``He was there,'' Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life. Jurors were shown a photo of Tsarnaev standing by a tree behind the family of Martin Richard. ``These children weren't innocent to him,'' the prosecutor said. ``They were American. He knew what that bag was designed to do.''. Chakravarty quoted Martin's father who earlier testified, ``I guess we were just unlucky that day.''. But luck had nothing to do with the Boston bombings, the prosecutor said. ``This was a cold, intentional, terrorist act,'' he said. The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, ``to make a point. To tell America, `We won't be terrorized by you anymore. We will terrorize you.'''. The defense has maintained that Tsarnaev, who was 19 and flunking out of college at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, fell under the sway of his older, more radicalized brother. ``In the past few weeks, we have come face to face with tragedy, suffering and grief in dimensions none of us could imagine,'' Clarke said. ``We've heard words, we've heard screams and we've heard cries. For this suffering and pain, there is no excuse.''. She acknowledged her client participated in a ``senseless act.''. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, a Golden Gloves boxer, had hoped to wage jihad, and his slacker younger brother was just along for the ride, the defense has maintained. During the 15-minute rebuttal period, prosecutor William Weinreb told jurors not to be distracted by the defense's ``attempt to point the finger at somebody else.''. ``There should be no doubt in your mind that the defendant and his brother are equally guilty,'' he said. They were ``partners in crime.''. Weinreb pointed out that after the bombing, Tsarnaev went to the grocery store. ``Tamerlan Tsarnaev didn't turn his brother into a murderer. To shred the bodies of women and children with a homemade type of bomb, you have to be different from other people,'' the prosecutor said. ``If you are capable of such hate, such callousness that you can murder and maim 20 people and then drive to Whole Foods and buy some milk, can you really blame it on your brother ?''. The radicalization of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. From the start, prosecutors presented a compelling case in which the horrors of April 15 to 19, 2013, were vividly brought to life once again. They began with the stories of bombing survivors and first responders, who described acts of courage and compassion amid madness and chaos. The final moments of the three Boston Marathon spectators who died were recounted by the people who were by their sides. According to testimony, Tamerlan Tsarnaev set off a bomb made from a 6-quart pressure cooker, explosive powder from fireworks, duct tape, nails and BBs on Boylston Street near the finish line. That bomb, which exploded near Marathon Sports, claimed the life of Krystle Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager. Twelve seconds later, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev allegedly detonated a second, similar bomb outside the Forum restaurant, slightly more than a block away. That blast killed the boy, Martin Richard, and Lingzi Lu, 23, a graduate student from China. Chakravarty's voice grew soft Monday as he recalled the victims :. Martin's 69-pound body ``was shattered, broken, eviscerated, burned. There wasn't a part of this boy's body that wasn't destroyed.''. Lu ``received blast injuries all over her body. Her leg was torn open, and she bled out.''. Campbell died in less than a minute from ``massive blast injuries to her lower extremities. Parts of her body were shredded.''. Sean Collier, the MIT campus police officer killed three days after the bombings, ``never had a chance.'' He was shot between the eyes. ``They assassinated him.''. The brothers allegedly killed the 26-year-old officer for his service weapon but couldn't pry it loose from a safety holster. Case ends with grisly photos and testimony. Dun Meng told the jury about his frightening 90 minutes with two carjackers, one who admitted being involved in the marathon bombing. He identified that person as Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Police fired 210 rounds at the brothers when they tracked a GPS device in Meng's stolen Mercedes and cornered them in Watertown, Massachusetts. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev struck Tamerlan, who was wounded, when he charged police in the car. Tamerlan died of his injuries. ``Tamerlan wanted suicide by cop,'' the prosecutor said Monday. ``He was ready for heaven. But the defendant had other plans.''. Dzhokhar ditched the stolen car and sought shelter in a dry-docked boat parked in a trailer in a backyard in Watertown. As he hid, he used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called a ``manifesto'' in which he said he was jealous of his brother for dying as a martyr and reaching paradise. He also lashed out at the United States for policies he said killed Muslims, writing, ``I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished. We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all.''. Federal prosecutors also presented evidence gleaned from searches of the brothers' computers, including militant literature written by top al Qaeda leaders. And they traced the purchase of the pressure cookers, ammunition and BBs, which appeared to have been made by Tamerlan. Boston trial : What defense ?
Delhi ( CNN ) An international human rights group is calling for an independent investigation of the killings by police of 20 suspected red sandalwood smugglers in southeastern India. ``There must be a criminal investigation to determine whether the police used excessive force, and whether the killings amount to `fake encounters,' or staged extrajudicial executions'', said Abhirr Vp, of Amnesty International India. ``The police are not above the law, and must not be treated like they are.''. Those responsible should be brought to justice, according to Amnesty. ``Lethal force should not be used except when strictly unavoidable in order to protect life,'' Vp said. A police official, Deputy Inspector General Kantha Rao, declined comment Wednesday, saying an ``investigation is still going on.''. The incident in question took place early Tuesday in India's southeastern Andhra Pradesh state. Forest officials near the town of Tirupati spotted hundreds of smugglers cutting trees for red sandalwood, Rao said Tuesday. The forest officials, who were unarmed, called for police. ``We saw several trees chopped down,'' Rao said said. ``These guys came prepared and were heavily armed.''. Rao said that the ensuing gun battle lasted more than three hours and 20 smugglers were shot. Many of them came from the neighboring state of Tamil Nadu, he said. Amnesty International said the police were claiming self-defense, alleging the suspects attacked them with stone and axes. ``However, no police official was injured,'' the Amnesty statement said. ``Most of the suspected smugglers were shot in the back.''. According to Amnesty, India's National Human Rights Commission has said the incident ``involved a serious violation of human rights of the individuals,'' and that ``the opening of firing can not be justified on the ground of self defense since it resulted in the loss of lives of 20 persons.''. The commission has asked senior government and police officials to explain the actions of the police and forest officials within two weeks, Amnesty said. Police said sandalwood smuggling is common in the area. Local media are reporting that politicians from Tamil Nadu have lodged a protest against the Andhra Pradesh government, saying the alleged smugglers were murdered in cold blood. Kunal Sehgal in Delhi contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The officer charged with murder in the shooting death of an unarmed black man in South Carolina has been fired as anger continues to build around his case. A video shows Officer Michael Slager, who is white, firing eight shots at 50-year-old Walter Scott as Scott has his back to him and is running away. Scott, who was unarmed, was struck five times. Timeline of events. The FBI is investigating, and once again, a shooting involving police has sparked national outrage. ``I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw,'' North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters Wednesday. The mayor spoke at the same news conference that was repeatedly interrupted by protesters, who chanted : ``No justice ! No peace !'' They called for Mayor Keith Summey to step down. Summey told reporters that the city has ordered an additional 150 body cameras ``so every officer on the street'' in the city will have one. That is in addition to 101 body cameras already ordered, he said. Just before the conference was set to begin, demonstrators walked in. They were led by a man wearing a ``Black Lives Matter'' T-shirt who shouted, ``This is what democracy looks like !''. Scott's shooting stirred memories of the Michael Brown case in Ferguson, Missouri, where an unarmed black teenager was killed by a white police officer. A grand jury declined to indict the officer in that case. But not everyone agreed that Scott's case is like Brown's or that race was a factor. ``We can't get into the brain of another individual, so we can't state that,'' Scott family attorney Chris Stewart said. ``I think it would be irresponsible to say that and try and inflame a community or anything of that nature.''. An autopsy of Scott showed that he ``sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body,'' and his death was the result of a homicide, the Charleston County Coroner's Office said. Asked whether CPR was performed on Scott after Slager shot him, Driggers said : ``In the end of it ( the video ), what I saw was ( what I ) believed to be a police officer removing the shirt of the individual and performing some type of life-saving ( procedure ), but I'm not sure what took place there.''. The North Charleston Police department was not legally obligated to but chose to hand the case over to the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, according to a news release from Scarlett A. Wilson, the Ninth Judicial Circuit solicitor. Though Wilson said she is subject to rules that limit what she can say publicly, she stated : ``My role is to hold accountable those who harm others unlawfully, regardless of profession. This office does not dictate nor comment upon police policy, training and procedure. I am, however, deeply concerned when those who are sworn to serve and protect violate the public's trust.''. Slager pulled Scott over on Saturday morning for a broken taillight, authorities have said. The beginning of the video shows the two men standing close to each other. Any words exchanged between Scott and Slager are not audible on the released tape. It's also unclear what happened before Scott started to run away, or why he ran. The officer initially said that he used a Taser stun gun on Scott and that Scott tried to take his weapon. ``Shots fired and the subject is down,'' Slager said, according to police reports. ``He took my Taser.''. Before the officer started firing his gun, a dark object falls behind him and hits the ground. It's not clear whether that is the Taser. Later in the video, when the officer approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man. It's not clear whether that is the Taser. It's unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body. When Scott's brother Anthony saw the video, he was convinced the officer had lied, he told CNN. ``There was not a struggle for the Taser,'' Anthony Scott said. ``I didn't believe my brother would have done that anyway.''. To Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was ``running for his life'' away from the officer. ``I think my brother was thinking he was not going to be shot, no one would have thought that,'' Scott said. The video shows Walter Scott attempting to run away. His back is to the officer, and he is a few yards away when the officer raises his gun and fires. A man walking to work on Saturday recorded the video and provided it to the family. That man, Feidin Santana, spoke to NBC's Lester Holt. He said there had been a struggle between the two men on the ground before he started recording, and that the officer was in control. When asked how he felt about the fact that Slager has been charged with murder, Santana said that ``no one can feel happy.''. ``He has his family and Mr. Scott also has his family. But I think, you know, he made a bad decision. And, you know, you pay for your decisions in this life,'' he told NBC's Holt. ``Mr. Scott didn't deserve this. And there were other ways that can be used to get him arrested. And that wasn't the proper way to do that.''. If convicted of murder, Slager could face life in prison or the death penalty. Who is Officer Slager ?. ``People are upset, people are pointing out how wrong the officer was for gunning down Mr. Scott,'' South Carolina State Rep. Justin Bamberg said as he stood alongside Anthony Scott on Wednesday. #WalterScott received 11,000 mentions on Twitter in just one hour Wednesday ; 243,000 mentions in 24 hours. #RIPWalterScott is also trending, as is #MichaelSlager. Bamberg said he hasn't heard of anyone acting out violently to protest the shooting. He and Scott stressed they don't want that to happen. ``Things are in play now, and this officer is in the process of being prosecuted,'' Bamberg said, imploring anyone listening to him speak on CNN : ``We ask that you let the justice process run its course.''. That message was echoed by Walter Scott's mother, who said she feels ``forgiveness in my heart, even for the guy that shot and killed my son.''. ``He was a loving son, a loving father. He cared about his family and.. no matter what happens, it will not replace my son,'' Judy Scott told CNN's Anderson Cooper. The Justice Department said it would ``take appropriate action in light of the evidence and developments in the state case.''. ``The South Carolina Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation has opened an investigation concurrent with the S.C. Law Enforcement Division and are providing aid as necessary to the state investigation,'' the Justice Department said in a statement. ``The Department of Justice Civil Rights Division and the South Carolina U.S. Attorney's Office will work with the FBI in the investigation.''. Whether Scott's civil rights were violated will be part of the Justice Department's investigation. In the meantime, Slager remains behind bars. He was denied bail at a bond hearing Tuesday night, CNN affiliate WCIV reported. Slager will remain in custody unless a circuit court sets his bond, a court spokesman told CNN. The court has not set a date for that hearing. According to WCIV, Slager initially said through his attorney, David Aylor, that he followed the appropriate policies and procedures. But Aylor later told CNN that he no longer represents the officer. It's not clear whether Slager has found a new attorney. A CNN examination of Slager's police job application indicates he has been an employee of the North Charleston Police Department for about five years and five months. Instead of wearing his police uniform, Slager now wears a jail uniform. Who was Walter Scott ?. CNN's Ryan Scallan, Christine Bear, Tristan Smith, Martin Savidge, Dana Ford, Sam Stringer, Randi Kaye, Chandler Friedman, Evan Perez, Don Lemon and Steve Brusk contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The shootings' main similarity is that the officer was white and the victim was black and unarmed. Outside of that, the highly publicized police shootings in Ferguson and North Charleston bear only mild resemblance. So what's changed between the shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, in August, and that of Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina, last weekend ? And did the backlash and publicity of the Ferguson shooting influence the handling of the North Charleston incident ?. It's tough to say for sure, but here are some of the stark differences in the cases, the lessons learned by both police and the public, and concrete changes that could help mend tensions in the future. Ferguson : Officer Darren Wilson said he shot Brown after the two struggled over Wilson's gun, and witnesses to the shooting had different accounts -- often conflicting -- of where Wilson was, where Brown was and whether Brown was surrendering or charging the officer. North Charleston : Though it's unclear what happened in the moments before a bystander began recording the incident on his phone, it's 100 % clear from the video that Scott was not posing a threat to Officer Michael Slager when the policeman opened fire on Scott as he ran away. Takeaway : Where Brown's killing was a breeding ground for speculation -- with a stark divide between those who said Wilson was justified and those who said Brown was senselessly slain -- no such debate has emerged in the Scott shooting. It would be tough to extrapolate for certain, but it's possible that the clear-cut imagery of an officer shooting a fleeing man in the back resulted in the prompt charges against the officer, and that quick reaction by authorities in South Carolina after the video surfaced headed off the sort of violence that repeatedly unfolded in Ferguson as the process of determining Wilson's fate dragged on for months. Ferguson : Black residents outnumber whites in the St. Louis suburb by more than a 2-to-1 ratio, yet at the time of Brown's shooting, there were only three black officers on the city's 53-member force, and there was only one African-American member of the six-member City Council. ( Two more African-Americans were voted in during this week's city's elections. ). North Charleston : It's closer to an even split here, with census data from 2010 showing the city is 47 % black and 42 % white. The makeup of the city's police department is unclear, though it's been widely reported that 2007 federal figures indicated it was about 80 % black. Three of the 10 City Council members are black. Takeaway : The ratio of white and black officers on the North Charleston Police Department appears to more closely mirror the makeup of its population than does the Ferguson Police Department, but both are considerably off. As for the city councils, the latest election in Ferguson makes its governing body more representative than North Charleston's. But before you place too much emphasis on the percentages, there are other variables to consider, like policing methods, as CNN political commentator Marc Lamont Hill pointed out. Changing the racial makeup of a department alone won't do the trick if officers aren't taught the best practices. ``Black people didn't march and fight and struggle to have black officers kill us and black officers beat us and black officers harass us,'' he said. ``I want police officers who are capable of doing the job properly. We need community-based policing if we're going to believe that police are the proper force to be in our neighborhoods.''. Ferguson : There was no bystander video of Michael Brown's death -- no concrete evidence to support or refute different witness claims about what had transpired. North Charleston : It's unlikely Slager would have been fired and charged with murder so quickly if not for video shot by witness Feidin Santana. Even North Charleston's police chief said he was disgusted by the footage of Scott's shooting. Not only does the video show Slager firing eight shots at Scott as he's running away, it also shows him placing a dark-colored object next to Scott's lifeless body. That could be significant, because Slager initially said Scott had taken his Taser and he feared for his life. But if investigators determine the object dropped next to Scott's body was actually the Taser, Slager could be accused of planting evidence. The takeaway : Ferguson resident Alexis Templeton said what happened in her city helped people across the country to feel empowered to stand up for themselves. The video of the North Charleston shooting, she said, is vital. ``If there is no video, folks don't believe it because it sounds so asinine that something like this would ever happen in this country,'' she said. ``But with a video, you can't say it's not happening.''. Ferguson : The largely peaceful protests in Ferguson were marred by looting, arson and even shootings. Violence erupted again in November after Darren Wilson, the officer who shot Brown, wasn't indicted. And even after Ferguson's police chief resigned last month, two officers were shot during a protest at the Ferguson Police Department. North Charleston : After Scott was killed in South Carolina over the weekend, protests in North Charleston have been peaceful so far. The takeaway : Some Ferguson residents say what happened in their city is playing a role in the way North Charleston is handling its own tragedy. Lee Smith, who recently made an unsuccessful bid for a Ferguson City Council seat, said he was glad to see authorities in South Carolina charge Slager with murder. ``I am hopeful that their motives are right and not just based on the fact that they are trying to avoid the same types of issues that came down in Ferguson,'' Smith said. Ferguson : It took Ferguson police six days to publicly identify Wilson as the officer who shot Brown, and in the immediate aftermath of the shooting, then-police chief Thomas Jackson decided not to visit Brown's family. And rather than charge Wilson and let a grand jury decide whether the charges had merit -- as many civil rights advocates wanted -- the prosecutor in the case instead made the unorthodox choice of presenting both sides himself and letting the grand jury decide whether to charge the officer. North Charleston : Slager was identified by authorities and charged with murder on Tuesday, two days after Santana shared his video with Scott's family. Mayor Keith Summey denounced the shooting and said Slager made a ``bad decision.'' Both Summey and the police chief also visited Scott's family. ``When you're wrong, you're wrong,'' he said. ``And if you make a bad decision -- don't care if you're behind the shield or just a citizen on the street -- you have to live by that decision.''. The takeaway : Former Ferguson Mayor Brian Fletcher said the city has influenced others. ``I think these situations are given much more scrutiny now,'' said Fletcher, who won a seat on Ferguson's city council this week. ``They have seen what has happened here in Ferguson. Every mayor and city council is very cautious in what they say and what they do.''. Ferguson : After Brown's death in August, many asked why Wilson didn't have a body camera. The shooting spurred a nationwide debate over whether officers should wear cameras on their lapels. Three months later, President Barack Obama pledged $ 263 million to procure body cameras and training for up to 50,000 police officers. North Charleston : Slager also was not wearing a body camera when he killed Scott. But after the shooting, the mayor said the city was ordering an additional 150 body cameras ``so every officer on the street'' in the city will have one. That's in addition to 101 body cameras already ordered, Summey said. The takeaway : Not everyone agrees that all officers should wear body cameras. Some police unions have scoffed at the idea, and the American Civil Liberties Union has cited privacy concerns. They're also expensive. Several camera models cost at least $ 500 each, and storing all that footage can cost as much as $ 20,000 a year. But National Urban League President Marc Morial said more body cameras will help protect not just the public, but also police. ``I think if officers know that their actions are being recorded on a consistent basis, it's going to protect good officers who do the right thing,'' Morial said. ``But it's also going to ferret out, if you will, bad actions by bad officers.''. CNN's Moni Basu, Gregory Wallace and Wolf Blitzer contributed to the report.
( CNN ) To allay possible concerns, Boston prosecutors released video Friday of the shooting of a police officer last month that resulted in the killing of the gunman. The officer wounded, John Moynihan, is white. Angelo West, the gunman shot to death by officers, was black. After the shooting, community leaders in the predominantly African-American neighborhood of Roxbury, where the shooting occurred, were quick to call for calm. One said the officers were forced to return fire. Still, they were glad to see the video released for the sake of transparency. ``I think people understand that the decisions Mr. West made put his life in grave jeopardy,'' clergyman Mark V. Scott told CNN affiliate WCVB. West had several prior gun convictions, police said. Moynihan is a former U.S. Army Ranger who was honored at the White House for his heroism in the wake of the Boston Marathon bombing. The ``Top Cop'' helped save a transit officer wounded in a gunbattle with the bombers. Last month, he became a gunshot victim when he and other officers in unmarked cars, but with blue lights flashing, stopped the car West was driving. When Moynihan opened the driver's - side door, the video shows, West sprang out and fired a shot with a pistol at the officer's face. As West ran away, he fired back at the other officers with his.357 Magnum handgun, police said. They returned fire and killed him. Moynihan, 34, survived with a bullet wound under one eye. He was placed in a medically induced coma at a Boston hospital. On Saturday, Moynihan was released from the hospital. ``His condition is best described as serious but improving,'' Boston police said in a statement. ``In the days after the shooting, John and his family have been strengthened, humbled and inspired by the outpouring of love and support they've received -- not only from his closest friends and fellow officers -- but also from concerned citizens and strangers from all over the country wishing him a full and speedy recovery.''. A woman who was driving by at the time of the shooting suffered a flesh wound in the right arm. She was not identified. Two passengers in the car were arrested on unrelated charges involving an outstanding warrant and a probation violation. ``None of our officers like to use their firearms,'' Police Commissioner William Evans said at the time. ``It's probably the worst thing we have to do in our profession, but here, clearly unprovoked, one of our officers is shot point-blank in the face.''. In April 2013, Moynihan was among officers who helped save transit officer Richard H. Donohue Jr., who was shot during a gunfight involving Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in the days after the marathon bombings. In the battle, police fired nearly 300 rounds within five to 10 minutes. Moynihan and other Massachusetts officers were cited for their ``heroic and relentless'' life-saving measures on Donohue, who nearly lost his entire blood volume on the Watertown street. At a White House ceremony in May, President Barack Obama honored Moynihan and 52 other officers as ``America's Top Cops.''. After Moynihan was wounded and West killed, police and and local leaders sought to allay community concerns at a time when officer-involved shootings have led to protests throughout the nation. Scott, of the Black Ministerial Alliance of Greater Boston, said Moynihan was shot ``assassination-style.'' He called for calm in Roxbury. ``This is not about `Black Lives Matter,''' he said, referring to a protest movement that emerged after the shootings. ``It's about `All Lives in the Community Matter,' and it's about the police.. responding to a concern from the community.''. CNN's Ann O'Neill contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The reserve deputy who shot a suspect with his firearm rather than his stun gun, and another deputy who can be heard cursing at the suspect after he was shot, were not in their normal states of mind because of the elevated stress of apprehending the suspect, according to a Tulsa, Oklahoma, investigator. Tulsa Police Sgt. Jim Clark, who has been brought in to review the case, said Tulsa County Reserve Deputy Robert Bates, 73, ``inadvertently'' shot Eric Courtney Harris after Harris -- a possibly PCP-addled felon who had days prior sold methamphetamine to an undercover officer -- ran from authorities after trying to sell an illegal handgun during an undercover sting. As deputies tried to handcuff Harris, Bates arrived with a pepper spray gun in hand. He warned his fellow deputies he was going to use a Taser on the suspect, but instead, he fired a single gunshot -- and immediately apologized, Clark said, citing a recently released video. Clark attributed Bates' actions to a phenomenon known as ``slip and capture.'' An example is when someone who drives a car with a manual transmission gets behind the wheel of a car with an automatic transmission. The driver will press her or his left foot down when stopping abruptly, even though there's no clutch pedal, he said. Quoting Bill Lewinski, executive director of the Force Science Institute, Clark further explained : ``These are mistakes that are made when you think you are doing one thing but you actually are doing another, and the result often is directly opposite of what you intended. In effect, your intended behavior slips off the path that you want it to go because it is captured by a stronger response and sent to a different direction.''. Bates announced that he was going to deploy his Taser, and he pulled the trigger only once, as he was trained to do, Clark said. Police are trained to ``double-tap'' when firing their handguns, he said. The gun jumped out of Bates' hand because he wasn't expecting recoil, Clark said, and Bates expressed surprise and remorse that he had shot Harris. Quoting Lewinski again, Clark said, ``This is the slip and capture. Under time pressure to address a perceived threat, his intention to draw his Taser slipped off his agenda, so to speak, when it was captured and completed by a more well-rehearsed motor program.. He was not conscious of this unfortunate switch until after the shot was fired. In his urgency, his concentration was focused exclusively on Harris' back, where he intended to place the Taser darts. Because of what's called `inattentional blindness,' meaning that he wasn't consciously paying attention to and registering it, he wouldn't have been aware that the feel of the gun was different from that of the Taser. And in this case the weight of the gun and Taser are nearly identical.''. Clark was emphatic that Bates had done nothing criminally wrong and went so far as to say the reserve deputy was a victim. ``Reserve Deputy Bates did not commit a crime. Reserve Deputy Bates was a victim, a true victim of slip and capture,'' he said. ``There's no other determination I could come to.''. When they set up the undercover sting, police wanted evidence on camera. But when they recorded the operation targeting Harris earlier this month, cameras continued to roll as the suspect ran, and as he was fatally shot. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office released the video on Friday. The shooting was an apparent accident, it has said. In the last minutes of the video, Harris lies on the pavement with police on top of him. An officer calls for a Taser, but in place of an electric clicking sound, a gunshot rings out. A voice can be heard saying, ``Oh ! I shot him ! I'm sorry !'' Another officer screams out, ``He shot him ! He shot him !''. Harris, who is bleeding, calls out, too. He's losing his breath, he says. An officer yells back at him. ``You f**king ran ! Shut the f**k up !'' he yells. ``F**k your breath,'' he said. Clark defended the officer's language, saying the deputy experienced auditory exclusion, never heard the gunshot and thought the suspect was out of breath from running. The language has no bearing on whether the shooting was justified, Clark said. ``One deputy thought he was going to have to shoot this person at the arrest site. It's very upsetting when you think you are going to have to take someone's life and this deputy, one of the involved deputies, was upset,'' he said. ``Secondly, this is total stress. They are going after a dangerous suspect that they have no idea whether or not this person is armed.''. Clark added, ``They did not know that he was shot at this time. They had audio exclusion. They was at a point where they couldn't hear. They didn't even hear the gunshot go off. The officers did not know that Mr. Harris had been shot.''. An officer can be seen in the video taking his foot off an object lying on the pavement not far from Harris. Shortly after the suspect is shot, the officers begin tugging Harris' hands behind his back as the video ends. Harris later died at a local hospital. Police said at the time of the shooting that Harris admitted to medics at the scene that he may have been under the influence of phencyclidine, a street drug commonly known as PCP. The video is edited to block out the officers' faces. Harris is clearly visible. Minutes earlier, Harris had climbed into a truck cab, where an undercover officer had set up a camera on the dash to record the suspect. ``What's up ?'' they greet each other cordially. Without missing a beat, Harris rummages deep in a backpack and hastily hands over a semiautomatic pistol. Every few seconds, he looks around outside nervously. ``Sweet, that's a nice gun, man,'' the undercover officer says off camera. It's a ``German Luger,'' Harris tells him. He cranes his head around quickly and watches as a car pulls up next to the truck. Officers in uniform jump out, and Harris bolts out the passenger door and sprints off. ``He's running ; he's running, he's running !'' the officer in the truck says. As Harris fled, police worried he might still be armed because he ran with his right forearm pressed against his hip, ``consistent with trying to maintain control of a gun,'' Clark said, adding that no gun was found when Harris was searched after the chase. Another video from an officer's body camera picks up the chase. The officer wearing it jumps out of a vehicle and pursues Harris on foot, catching up to him easily. He tackles the fleeing suspect. The officer commands him, ``I need you to roll on your stomach. Now !'' Other officers appear. Someone calls, ``Taser ! Taser !''. The gun discharges. Much later in the recording made by the first camera inside the truck, two men are conversing. ``He thought it was his Taser,'' one of them says, as the other curses in frustration. In the background, a woman is crying ``No, no, no !'' Harris had come to the sting deal with a female companion. Police have said that Harris had reached for his waistband, and officers feared he might endanger them. When Harris was on the ground, he ``refused to pull his left arm from underneath his body where his hand was near his waistband,'' they said after the shooting. The officer's body camera video did not reveal that area of Harris' body. Bates, a former Tulsa police officer, was placed on administrative leave after the shooting, the sheriff's office has said. Asked whether Bates' age may have been a factor in the shooting, Clark said, ``It's happened to 21-year-old law enforcement officers. It's happened to 30-year-old law enforcement officers. Age is not really a factor in consideration for the dynamics behind slip and capture events. Despite the details released over the weekend, Harris' brother says he still want answers. ``I want to know if he was shot in the back accidentally or on purpose. These are all the things that not only I want, but the public wants,'' Andre Harris told CNN affiliate KTUL. Bates' attorney, Scott Wood, told CNN on Friday he would contact the network later. He had not issued a statement or called back as of Sunday. CNN's Jason Morris, Carma Hassan and Andreas Preuss contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Two pieces of audio recorded in the immediate aftermath of a deadly police shooting in South Carolina emerged Monday. The voice of Michael Slager can be heard in both. The former North Charleston police officer is charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. In the first recording, an unidentified officer talks to Slager about what might happen. ``Once they get here, it'll be real quick. They're gon na tell you, you're gon na be off for a couple days and we'll come back and interview you then. They're not gon na ask you any type of questions right now. They're gon na take your weapon,'' the officer says. ``It'd probably be a good idea to jot down your thoughts about whatever happened.. once the adrenaline stops pumping.''. Slager responds : ``It's pumping,'' and then laughs. The second audio, taken from dash cam video from inside a patrol car, captures a phone call between Slager and someone CNN believes is his wife. He tells her : ``Hey. Hey, everything's OK. OK ? I just shot somebody.''. ``He grabbed my Taser, yeah. Yeah,'' says Slager. ``He was running from me.. I'm fine.''. If convicted of murder, the former officer faces up to life in prison or the death penalty, although a death penalty case appears unlikely at this point. ``Based on the facts revealed thus far, it does not appear South Carolina's death penalty provision applies in this case because there are no statutory `aggravating circumstances' present,'' Scarlett A. Wilson, who is the chief prosecutor for the Ninth Judicial Circuit in the state, said on her Facebook page. Slager was charged after cell phone video emerged, showing him firing at Scott as the man ran away. Who was Walter Scott ?. Pierre Fulton was riding in a car with Scott before the shooting took place. ``Walter was a dear friend and I miss him every day,'' Fulton said in a statement given to ABC News by his lawyer. ``Over the past five years he helped me to become a better man and showed me the value of hard work.''. ``I'll never know why he ran, but I know he didn't deserve to die,'' Fulton said. ``Please keep Walter and his family in your prayers and respect my privacy moving forward.''. Scott's passenger meets with police. Scott's death has reignited a national conversation around race and policing. Scott was black ; Slager is white. The case has also brought to light previous instances in which Slager's behavior on the job is being questioned. On Monday, attorneys for a man named Julius Wilson announced that they were filing a lawsuit in connection with an August 2014 traffic stop. During the stop, three officers -- including Slager -- pulled Wilson out of his car. Wilson was then allegedly shocked with a stun gun. The suit claims Slager used excessive force. Slager was also named in a police complaint in 2013 after he allegedly ``Tased a man for no reason'' before slamming him to the ground and dragging him, according to the North Charleston Police Department. At the time, Slager was searching for a suspect who was described as being 5-feet-5-inches tall. The African-American man he confronted was 6-feet-3 inches tall. A lawyer for Mario Givens, the man who filed the complaint, said last week that his client plans to file a lawsuit. Givens said Slager came to his door, ordered him out of the house and then Tased him. Slager was later cleared in that incident. What we know about Officer Slager. CNN's Ray Sanchez contributed to this report.
Tulsa, Oklahoma ( CNN ) The Tulsa County deputy who shot and killed a man instead of using his Taser now faces a manslaughter charge. Video shows Reserve Deputy Robert Bates announcing he is going to deploy his Taser after an undercover weapons sting on April 2, but then shooting Eric Courtney Harris in the back with a handgun. In a written statement, Tulsa County District Attorney Stephen A. Kunzweiler said Bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter involving culpable negligence. It's a felony charge that could land the volunteer deputy in prison for up to four years if he's found guilty. Scott Wood, an attorney who represents Bates, said the shooting was an ``excusable homicide.''. ``We believe the video itself proves that it was an accident of misfortune that occurred while Deputy Bates was fulfilling his duties as a reserve deputy,'' Wood said. ``He is not guilty of second-degree manslaughter.''. Investigators' efforts to defend Bates and the other deputies involved in the arrest have sparked a mounting chorus of criticism online. Harris' family is demanding an independent investigation of what they call unjustified brutality. They're also questioning why the 73-year-old Bates -- the CEO of an insurance company who volunteers as a certified reserve deputy -- was on the scene in such a sensitive and high-risk sting operation. Daniel Smolen, an attorney representing the Harris family, said Bates paid big money to play a cop in his spare time. ``It's absolutely mind boggling that you have a wealthy businessman who's been essentially deputized to go play like he's some outlaw, like he's just cleaning up the streets,'' he said. Wood said his client -- who had donated cars and video equipment to the Sheriff's Office -- had undergone all the required training and had participated in more than 100 operations with the task force he was working with the day he shot Harris. But he'd never been the main deputy in charge of arresting a suspect, Wood said, but was thrust into the situation because Harris ran from officers during the arrest. ``Probably in the past four of five years since he has been working in conjunction with the task force he has been on, ( there were ) in excess of 100 operations or search warrants where he was placed on the outer perimeter,'' Wood said. ``He has never been on an arrest team or been the one who is primarily responsible for the capture or the arrest of a suspect. He is there more in a support mechanism.''. Bates, who worked as a police officer for a year in the 1960s, had been a reserve deputy since 2008, with 300 hours of training and 1,100 hours of community policing experience, according to the Sheriff's Office. He was also a frequent contributor to the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office, including $ 2,500 to the reelection of Sheriff Stanley Glanz. Tulsa County Sheriff's Maj. Shannon Clark denied accusations that Bates had paid to play a cop, describing him as one of many volunteers in the community who have contributed to the agency. ``No matter how you cut it up, Deputy Bates met all the criteria on the Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training to be in the role that he was in,'' Clark said. After the shooting, Bates told investigators that he was ``in a state of shock and disbelief'' after realizing he'd fired his gun. He also said he believed there was a ``strong possibility'' that Harris had a gun. Wood said Monday that Bates is upset over the shooting. ``Obviously he is very upset about what happened. He feels badly,'' he said. ``The incident completely took him by surprise. He has all the requisite training. He is TASER-certified, and if you watch the video you know he was quite shocked when his gun went off.''. Authorities say Bates thought he pulled out his Taser but ``inadvertently'' fired his gun. They've painted Harris as a dangerous, possibly PCP-addled illegal gun dealer who had recently sold methamphetamine to undercover police and who fled police that day in such a way as to give the impression that he had a gun in his waistband. Though Harris was later determined to be unarmed, Sgt. Jim Clark of the Tulsa Police Department, who has been brought in to review the case, excused the behavior of Bates and an officer who is heard cursing at Harris in the video. Clark said Bates was the ``victim'' of something called ``slip and capture,'' where in a high-stress situation, a person intends to do one thing and instead does something else. It's a controversial argument that drew sharp criticism online as soon as police started making it. One expert told CNN the claim amounts to ``junk science.''. ``It's not something that's supported by a testable theory. There's no peer-reviewed articles that would support this.. It's not generally accepted by the scientific community,'' said Phil Stinson, an assistant professor of criminal justice at Bowling Green State University. ``So it's something that in most courts would not be admissible as evidence.''. Andre Harris told reporters Monday that claims his brother was violent and on PCP are false. ``He was nonviolent, he was peaceful, he was loving, he was caring, and he was my brother that I'll never see again'til I see him in heaven,'' Harris told reporters, accusing the sheriff's office of trying to persuade him not to hire an attorney and quickly make the case ``go away.''. He added that the shooting of his brother, who was African-American, wasn't a racial matter. ``I don't think this is a racial thing. I don't think this has anything to do with race. It might have a hint there somewhere.. This is simply evil,'' Andre Harris told reporters Monday. ``This is a group of people that's spent a lot of time together, spent money together.. They've gotten real comfortable with how they do things, which when you're the law, I guess you feel like you can do things and get away with it and not get exposed. ``Well, we've come to expose it. We've come to pull a mask off the evil. We've come to shine a light on the darkness.''. CNN's Ed Lavandera and Jason Morris reported from Tulsa. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet reported from Atlanta. CNN's Atika Shubert, Chandler Friedman and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.
( CNN ) An Arizona police chief on Wednesday supported an officer's decision to drive his car into an armed suspect, saying that although the move could have killed the suspect, deadly force was justified. Video of the incident, recorded February 19 by the dashboard cameras of two Marana police cars, shows one of the cars running into a suspect with who had a rifle in the city about a half hour from Tucson. The suspect, 36-year-old Mario Valencia, survived and was hospitalized before being criminally charged. Marana police Chief Terry Rozema was asked Wednesday on CNN's ``New Day'' whether police were fortunate that Valencia didn't die. ``That very well may be.. that it's luck that he is still alive. The fact of the matter remains, though, deadly force was authorized,'' Rozema said. ``So if he ends up dying in that situation, ( then ) he ends up dying, and that's unfortunate, ( but ) that's not the desire of everybody,'' the chief added. The footage has stirred debate about what type of force police should have used. In one of the dashcam videos, an officer who was tailing a walking Valencia at slow speed reports over the radio that the suspect has fired one round in the air with a rifle he is accused of stealing that morning from a Walmart. Another patrol car zooms past, runs into the man from behind, then hits a short cinder block wall next to a driveway. Video from Officer Michael Rapiejko's camera shows Rapiejko's vehicle running into Valencia, with the windshield smashing as the car hits the wall. Police in Marana justified Rapiejko's actions. ``We don't know that if ( Rapiejko ) lets him go for another 10 seconds, ( Valencia ) doesn't take somebody out in the parking lot,'' Rozema said. ``And then we're answering some completely different questions : `Why didn't you act sooner ?.. This guy had a gun.. Why didn't you stop this guy before he shot my wife, before he shot my husband, before he shot my child ?'''. The video has stirred debate about what type of force police should have used to detain the man. Valencia's attorney, Michelle Cohen-Metzger, told CNN on Tuesday that ``it is miraculous that my client isn't dead.''. ``Everything in the video seems to point towards an obvious excessive use of force, Cohen-Metzger said. Tucson Police Sgt. Pete Dugan told CNN that Valencia was involved in several incidents there the day he was struck. At 6:45 a.m. on February 19, Valencia allegedly robbed a 7-Eleven in Tucson with a metal object in his hand. Authorities said he was dressed only in his underwear. He was charged with theft. A little more than an hour later, police said, Valencia set a fire at a church for which he was charged with arson of an occupied structure. Just after that he entered a home and stole a car, police said. Authorities said he drove to a Walmart in Marana, where he allegedly stole a.30 -30 rifle and ammunition. He fled the store with Walmart employees in pursuit. Police encountered him in a business park walking down the road. An officer told him several times to drop the rifle, Lt. Tim Brunenkant with Marana police said in an email containing a timeline of events. Valencia, police said, walked away from the officer, turned a corner and stopped. Valencia pointed the rifle at the officer then walked away again toward a Coca-Cola bottling plant and another business. ``As Mario Valencia briskly walked towards Sargent Controls ( local manufacturer ), Officer Michael Rapiejko uses his marked police car to stop the dangerous situation Mario Valencia created,'' Brunenkant wrote. Brunenkant also said by phone that before Rapiejko's encounter with Valencia, the suspect had pointed the rifle at his head multiple times and threatened suicide before fleeing. Rozema said that Valencia's firing of the weapon, his refusal to obey the first officer's commands to drop the gun and the pointing of the gun at the officer were key. ``And so you have another officer who sees and seizes an opportunity to end the threat and put an end to the situation,'' the chief said. Cohen-Metzger criticized the fact that Rapiejko hit Valencia from behind. ``My client's back was turned and the officer drove right into him,'' she said. ``It isn't that dissimilar to a police officer shooting a fleeing suspect in the back.''. CNN affiliate KOLD reported Valencia was in serious condition when he was taken to the hospital and was released into police custody two days later. Valencia faces 15 charges, including three counts of aggravated assault, three counts of armed robbery and possession of a deadly weapon by a prohibited possessor. Cohen-Metzger said he had a prior record. His next court appearance is May 18. He is in the Pima County Jail. Authorities said no charges have been brought against the officer. CNN's Tony Marco contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Thousands sought refuge in temporary shelters in South Africa after mobs with machetes attacked immigrants in Durban, leaving at least five people dead, an aid group said Thursday. Heavily armed police have scrambled to stop clashes this week after local residents accused immigrants from other African nations of taking their jobs. The attacks in Durban killed two immigrants and three South Africans, including a 14-year-old boy, authorities said. ``There has been an outpouring of support from ordinary South Africans who are disgusted with the attacks not only because they are foreign, or African, but because they are fellow human beings,'' said Gift of the Givers charity, which is helping those seeking refuge. ``We are preparing aid packages for those who may journey onwards to their home countries.''. The charity said about 8,500 people fled to refugee centers or police stations this week because of the violence. That doesn't count anyone who fled their homes to other, private accommodations, the group said. It said it hopes the violence is limited to Durban, but assured immigrants that it has a facility in Johannesburg to help those who might need shelter there. ``We have tents and all essential supplies on standby but pray that sanity prevails and this does not become necessary,'' it said. In the past, Johannesburg has been the epicenter of anti-immigrant tensions. In 2008, scores were killed in attacks in the poorest areas of Johannesburg. Most of the victims were Zimbabweans who had fled repression and dire economic circumstances. In that attack, police arrested more than 200 people for various crimes including rape, murder, robbery and theft.
Rome ( CNN ) Muslims who were among migrants trying to get from Libya to Italy in a boat this week threw 12 fellow passengers overboard -- killing them -- because the 12 were Christians, Italian police said Thursday. Italian authorities have arrested 15 people on suspicion of murdering the Christians at sea, police in Palermo, Sicily, said. Why migrants are dying to get to Italy. The original group of 105 people left Libya on Tuesday in a rubber boat. Sometime during the trip north across the Mediterranean Sea, the alleged assailants -- Muslims from the Ivory Coast, Mali and Senegal -- threw the 12 overboard, police said. Other people on the voyage told police that they themselves were spared ``because they strongly opposed the drowning attempt and formed a human chain,'' Palermo police said. The boat was intercepted by an Italian navy vessel, which transferred the passengers to a Panamanian-flagged ship. That ship docked in Palermo on Wednesday, after which the arrests were made, police said. ' I enter Europe or I die' : Desperate migrants rescued this week off Italy. The 12 who died were from Nigeria and Ghana, police said. Thousands of people each year make the dangerous sea journey from North Africa to Europe's Mediterranean coast, often aboard vessels poorly equipped for the trip. Many of them attempt the voyage to flee war and poverty in Africa and the Middle East. More than 10,000 people have arrived on Italian shores from Libya since last weekend alone, according to the Italian coast guard. Many die each year while attempting the voyage, often when boats capsized. Last year at least 3,200 died trying to make the trip. Since 2000, according to the International Organization for Migration, almost 22,000 people have died fleeing across the Mediterranean. The IOM reported Thursday the latest boat to sink in trying to make the journey. Only four people survived from the original 45 on board, bringing the estimated death toll so far this year close to a thousand. CNN's Hada Messia reported from Rome, and CNN's Livia Borghese reported from Augusta, Sicily. CNN's Jason Hanna wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Ben Wedeman contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The Arizona police officer who intentionally slammed his car into an armed suspect previously faced an excessive force lawsuit in New York, according to court documents. Officer Michael Rapiejko was with the New York Police Department from 2003 to 2006. Two years after he left, he was one of the defendants in a suit filed by a man who alleged that Rapiejko pointed a gun and threatened to shoot him and handcuffed and choked him in front of his family during a 2005 arrest. The lawsuit said Luis Colon had parked his car and gotten out when Rapiejko, with his gun aimed at Colon, ordered him back into the car. During his arrest on charges of obstructing governmental administration, disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, Colon alleged he was yanked from the car, handcuffed and choked. The charges against Colon were dropped six months later. Colon also sued two unnamed officers who arrived after the initial confrontation, court documents show. Colon and the city settled the suit for $ 20,000. The settlement said the defendants were not admitting to any wrongdoing. Rapiejko had resigned voluntarily in 2006, and there is no indication of any disciplinary action against him from the NYPD, a senior law enforcement official told CNN. The NYPD has said that it will not release further details about Rapiejko. Rapiejko's actions in Marana, Arizona, in which he drove his patrol car into a man who had fired a rifle in the air minutes earlier and before that had pointed the gun at another officer, have stirred debate about what type of force police should have used. Authorities said no charges have been brought against the officer for the February incident. The suspect, 36-year-old Mario Valencia, survived and was hospitalized before being criminally charged. Marana police Chief Terry Rozema was asked Wednesday on CNN's ``New Day'' whether police were fortunate that Valencia didn't die. ``That very well may be.. that it's luck that he is still alive. The fact of the matter remains, though, deadly force was authorized,'' Rozema said. ``So if he ends up dying in that situation, ( then ) he ends up dying, and that's unfortunate, ( but ) that's not the desire of everybody,'' the chief added. In one of the dashcam videos, an officer who was tailing a walking Valencia at slow speed reports over the radio that the suspect has fired one round in the air with a rifle he is accused of stealing that morning from a nearby Walmart. Another patrol car zooms past, runs into the man from behind, then hits a short cinder block wall next to a driveway. Video from Rapiejko's camera shows the officer's vehicle running into Valencia, with the windshield smashing as the car hits the wall. Police in Marana justified Rapiejko's actions. ``We don't know that if ( Rapiejko ) lets him go for another 10 seconds, ( Valencia ) doesn't take somebody out in the parking lot,'' Rozema said. ``And then we're answering some completely different questions : `Why didn't you act sooner ?.. This guy had a gun.. Why didn't you stop this guy before he shot my wife, before he shot my husband, before he shot my child ?'''. Valencia's attorney, Michelle Cohen-Metzger, told CNN on Tuesday that ``it is miraculous that my client isn't dead.''. ``Everything in the video seems to point towards an obvious excessive use of force,'' Cohen-Metzger said. Tucson Police Sgt. Pete Dugan told CNN that Valencia was involved in several crimes there the day he was struck, including a stealing a car that he drove a half hour north to Marana. Valencia faces 15 charges, including three counts of aggravated assault, three counts of armed robbery and possession of a deadly weapon by a prohibited possessor. Cohen-Metzger said he had a prior record. His next court appearance is May 18. He is in the Pima County Jail. Marana police on Thursday told CNN's Miguel Marquez that a store gun lock was still on the rifle when it was recovered. The wire that goes through the trigger and the lever to reload the gun were loose enough to allow it to still be used, police said. CNN's Tony Marco, Jason Hanna and Dominique Debucquoy-Dodley contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The accidental death of a 2-year-old boy in Milwaukee on Sunday triggered a violent chain of events, eventually claiming the lives of three more people. It all started with a birthday party that little Damani Terry was attending. During the family gathering, he dashed out into the street and was struck and killed by a GMC van, according to Milwaukee police. The distraught driver, Archie Brown Jr., 40, immediately stopped and got out to tend to the boy. But it was too late, police said. Damani was dead. Damani's alarmed family came running, including his older brother, 15-year-old Rasheed Chiles, police said. That was not the end of the situation. Soon, two more people would also die : the driver and the teen were both felled by bullets fired by the same man, police said. That man, identified as Ricky Ricardo Chiles III, was located late Wednesday at a Chicago-area hotel. He committed suicide as authorities closed in with a warrant for his arrest, Milwaukee Police Chief Ed Flynn told reporters. ``Chicago police and United States Marshals Service entered the hotel room, whereupon Mr. Chiles took his own life with his firearm,'' the police chief said Thursday. An accidental death, a fatal retaliation rips apart two families. Damani's family members had previously identified the shooting suspect as the boys' uncle. ``Sunday was the worst day I ever lived in my whole entire life,'' Lena Tidwell, told CNN affiliate WISN. ``It's a day I wish had never, never came.''. Tidwell is the boys' grandmother and the mother of the alleged gunman. She said she was inside eating cake and ice cream at the birthday when her life turned upside down. ``I didn't know my grandbaby got hit, and then I heard people just screaming,'' she said. ``Then I just heard gunshots, and my daughter ran in the house with the baby in her arms.''. The family believes the uncle targeted Brown, and Rasheed was struck by an errant bullet. ``I heard he was trying to pick his brother up. He was trying to hold him and save him,'' a family friend, Stephanie Townsend, told CNN affiliate WITI. Earlier this week, Flynn bemoaned the apparent madness of what happened. ``What did we have Sunday ?'' Flynn asked. ``We had some clown take the law into his own hands and murder a guy who was doing what we expect good citizens to do, and oops, accidentally kill somebody else.''
( CNN ) After a weekend shipwreck off the coast of Italy that may have killed hundreds of migrants, the International Organization for Migrants said Monday that there may be three more migrant boats in distress in international waters. Authorities still don't know the fate of many of the passengers, including children, who were on the large ship bound from Libya to Europe that capsized Saturday night in the frigid waters of the Mediterranean Sea. That sinking may be the worst in a series of disasters in which migrants have lost their lives on vessels that are too rickety to survive long voyages. ``Gangs of criminals are putting people on a boat, sometimes even at gunpoint,'' Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said. ``They're putting them on the road to death, really, and nothing else.''. A rescue operation is still underway for people who were on the ship from Libya, and the number of potential victims is not clear. A Bangladeshi survivor told investigators there were 950 people on board. Previous estimates put the number around 700. Maltese authorities, who are working with Italian rescuers, said around 50 people had been saved. But the Italian Coast Guard said 28 people had been rescued and 24 bodies recovered. Two of the survivors were arrested on suspicion of human trafficking upon arriving in Sicily, according to Italian police officer Maria Guia Federico. On Monday, European Union ministers met in Luxembourg and proposed a 10-point plan to help address the crisis. ``We are not yet working on numbers, but what we have agreed on today is, for sure, the need to increase significantly the resources at sea, and the level of the operation, doing more search and rescue and doing it more together,'' Federica Mogherini told CNN's ``The World Right Now with Hala Gorani.''. The EU high representative for foreign affairs and security policy said the European Union must fight human traffickers, strengthen Europeans' duty to save lives at sea and share responsibility when it comes to the resettlement and relocation of refugees. ``We need to fight the organizations that are trafficking and smuggling people, so that we can prevent desperate people from leaving in desperate conditions,'' Mogherini said. ``My pain is that it was a reaction coming too late after so many people died.''. Migrants have been attempting the perilous journey across the Mediterranean to southern Europe for years, but authorities have reported a sudden surge in the past 10 days, along with a grim spike in the number of those who are killed en route. Already this year, more than 900 migrants are believed to have died while crossing the Mediterranean, far more than during the same period in 2014, the International Organization for Migration said last week. Since the beginning of 2015, more than 35,000 refugees and migrants have crossed the Mediterranean Sea -- 23,500 have landed in Italy and more than 12,000 in Greece, according to the United Nations High Commission on Human Rights. While those numbers sound high, they were even higher the previous year. In 2014, approximately 219,000 refugees and migrants sailed across the Mediterranean, with most having to be rescued by the Italian Navy, Coast Guard or merchant ships, the UNCHR said. It is estimated that 3,500 people in 2014 died at sea. On Monday, yet another boat sank off the Greek island of Rhodes, killing at least three people, the Greek Merchant Marine Ministry said. Of the 83 people reported on board, at least 57 survived. Those confirmed dead were a man, a woman and a child. The capsizing of the ship that departed from Libya marked the worst such disaster so far. As rescuers approached the boat in response to a distress call Saturday night, authorities say, migrants moved to one side, hoping to be saved. Their movement caused the large, multilevel boat to capsize about 110 kilometers ( 70 miles ) north of Libya, sending many passengers plunging into the sea. According to one Bangladeshi survivor, large numbers of people remained trapped inside the boat as it sank. Smugglers -- human traffickers organizing the voyages -- had locked the doors to the lower levels of the vessel, the survivor told Italian authorities. ``Our troops, together with the Italian navy, are literally looking through the bodies to try to find someone who's still alive,'' Muscat said. While the shipwreck was an accident, Muscat slammed the human traffickers whom he accused of risking people's lives by putting them on rickety ships in unpredictable waters. It's ``genocide -- nothing less than genocide, really,'' Muscat told CNN. ``A mass grave is being created in the Mediterranean Sea and European policies are responsible,'' said Loris De Filippi, the president of the international aid group Doctors Without Borders. He compared the high number of deaths to ``figures from a war zone.''. De Filippi called on European states to immediately launch large-scale search and rescue operations with proactive patrolling as close as possible to Libyan shores. ``Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders, forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea,'' he said. ``This tragedy is only just beginning, but it can and should be stopped.''. Save the Children similarly called on European officials to do more. ``What we needed from EU foreign ministers today was life-saving action, but they dithered,'' the group's CEO Justin Forsyth said in a statement. ``With each day we delay we lose more innocent lives and Europe slips further into an immoral abyss. Right now, people desperately seeking a better life are drowning in politics.''. Many of the migrants who board ships to cross the Mediterranean come from sub-Saharan Africa, often traveling for weeks or months just to get to the ships. They're seeking a better life, but many are exploited by the ruthless smugglers who organize the voyages. ``There is a well-oiled machine with the human traffickers, first by land and then by sea, and they feel the need for these desperate people who just want to get to Europe at all costs,'' said Rome-based journalist Barbie Nadeau. The situation on board the boat that sank over the weekend isn't unusual, based on accounts of previous voyages. On old fishing boats, ``people are crammed into what used to be the frozen live tank compartments in the bottom of the ship,'' Nadeau said. ``Those are the cheaper tickets. People that want to be out on the upper deck, which is the prime space, pay a little more for that service.''. Traffickers are believed to charge anywhere from 6,000 euros to 8,000 euros ( $ 6,450 to $ 8,600 ) per person for the dangerous voyage, she said. Italy's proximity to the North African coast puts it on the front line of tackling the continent's migration crisis. ``We're swamped,'' Sandro Gozi, the Italian minister for European affairs, told French daily Le Monde. ``There's not even enough space in Sicily's cemeteries to bury the dead.''. An Italian search and rescue program, Mare Nostrum, was credited with rescuing more than 160,000 migrants in the space of a year. But it ended in October because of budget constraints and criticism from the European Union that the program itself was encouraging migrants to head across the Mediterranean. The European Union's border control agency, Frontex, started its own mission in November, known as Triton, with a budget of less than a third of that of Mare Nostrum. Frontex has no vessels or surveillance equipment of its own, so has to rely on European member states to lend it ships. As anti-immigrant parties thrive across the continent, European nations are collectively struggling to cope with the migration crisis on their doorstep. ``We can't act as if each tragedy is the last while crossing our fingers that another one doesn't happen,'' Gozi told Le Monde, lamenting ``a total absence'' of European Union policy on how to deal with refugees arriving in Europe. The European Commission, the executive branch of the EU, said Sunday it was consulting member states, European agencies and international organizations to prepare what it called a European Migration Strategy to be adopted in mid-May. ``These are human lives at stake, and the European Union as a whole has a moral and humanitarian obligation to act,'' it said. But international groups say European governments are failing to do enough. Doctors Without Borders will begin its own rescue effort, De Filippi said, because ``as a medical, humanitarian organization, we simply can not wait any longer.''. CNN's Karl Penhaul, Hada Messia, Josh Levs and Catherine E. Shoichet and Khushbu Shah contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Chanting ``No justice ! No peace !'' protesters rallied in Baltimore late Tuesday, the same day police released the names of the officers involved in the arrest of Freddie Gray. Gray died of a spinal injury Sunday, exactly one week after he was taken into custody. Demonstrators marched to a local police station that was protected by barricades. One man was arrested after crossing that barricade, but the protest was peaceful. Among the crowd were members of Gray's family, including his mother. She held her head and cried. Many of the protesters clasped hands, and raised them in a show of support. ``Make some noise for Freddie Gray,'' one man shouted into a megaphone. ``We won't stop,'' said another. ``We have the power and, of course, today shows we have the numbers.''. Speaking to CNN's ``Anderson Cooper 360,'' Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said she understands where the protesters are coming from. She understands their frustration. ``Mr. Gray's family deserves justice, and our community deserves an opportunity to heal, to get better, and to make sure that something like this doesn't happen again,'' she said. Earlier in the day, the Baltimore Police Department released the names of six police officers suspended with pay. They are : Lt. Brian Rice, 41, who joined the department in 1997 ; Officer Caesar Goodson, 45, who joined in 1999 ; Sgt. Alicia White, 30, who joined in 2010 ; Officer William Porter, 25, who joined in 2012 ; Officer Garrett Miller, 26, who joined in 2012 ; and Officer Edward Nero, 29, who joined in 2012. After an ``in-custody death,'' it is standard procedure to release the names of officers involved, said Baltimore Police Department spokesman Capt. Eric Kowalczyk. It doesn't mean the officers did anything wrong, nor does it mean that these were the only officers involved, he said. Of the six officers, three were on bikes and initially approached Gray, another made eye contact with Gray, another officer joined in the arrest after it was initiated and one drove the police van, Kowalczyk said. The autopsy hasn't yielded many answers in Gray's death -- in fact, it's prompted more questions -- but Baltimore's mayor pledged Tuesday to find out how the 25-year-old died after being arrested a week prior. ``I'm going to make sure that as we get information that we can confirm, we're going to put that information out in the public,'' Mayor Rawlings-Blake said. ``I want people to understand that I have no interest in hiding information, holding back information.''. She's angry, she said, and among the questions she wants answered are : Why did police stop Gray in the first place ? And why did arresting officers make what she called the mistake of not immediately requesting medical attention when Gray asked for it?i. ``He was dragged a bit, but then you see him using his legs to get into the van, so he was able-bodied when he was in the van, and we know that when he was finally taken out of the van, he was unresponsive,'' she said. Challenged on the ``able-bodied'' remark -- video shows Gray's legs hanging listlessly as officers carry him by his shoulders -- Rawlings-Blake said the medical examiner would make the final determination, but ``we know he was fine getting into the van.''. ``We will get to the bottom of it, and we will go where the facts lead us,'' she said. ``We will hold people accountable if we find there was wrongdoing.''. She further said she ``absolutely believes we need to have an outside investigation,'' especially when Baltimore's dark history of police misconduct is considered. Police plan to conclude their investigation by Friday, May 1. From there, the case will go to the state's attorney's office, which will decide whether to file charges. The Justice Department has been watching developments in the Gray case and is officially looking into whether a prosecutable civil rights violation occurred, a spokesperson said Tuesday. In October, the Justice Department announced a collaborative reform initiative with the Baltimore Police Department to ``include an assessment of policies, training and operations as they relate to use of force and interactions with citizens.''. Police brutality not on rise ; coverage is. ``When law enforcement misconduct is uncovered, the U.S. Department of Justice has a variety of tools available to respond. Responses to misconduct in law enforcement organizations fall along a continuum of intervention, with the specific response calibrated to address the particular circumstances of any given situation,'' Ronald Davis, director of the Justice Department's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, said in a statement at the time. The Justice Department began the data-gathering stage of the lengthy process in January and held its first public town hall last week at Coppin State University. It was attended by hundreds of residents, many of whom sounded off about their experiences with Baltimore police. ``Right now, we are past the stage of implementing policies and procedures. This is a state of emergency right now,'' Tawanda Jones told Justice Department officials, according to CNN affiliate WBAL. Jones' brother, Tyrone West, died in police custody in 2013. The mayor issued a statement ahead of the town hall, saying that 230 officers accused of misconduct between January 2012 and February 2015 had accepted punishment outright, while another 61 officers were found guilty through trial board hearings. BPD is the nation's eighth-largest police force with almost 4,000 civilian and sworn personnel. ``I am determined to not allow a small handful of bad actors tarnish the reputation of the overwhelming majority of police officers putting their lives in danger to make Baltimore a safer city,'' Rawlings-Blake said in the statement. The mayor had asked the Justice Department to take a look at the police department, The Baltimore Sun reported, saying that her request came on the heels of the newspaper's report that the city had paid almost $ 6 million in judgments and settlements in 102 police misconduct civil suits since 2011. Overwhelmingly, The Sun reported, the people involved in the incidents that sparked the lawsuits were cleared of criminal charges. Under Rawlings-Blake's watch, she said, the city has seen a decline in lawsuits, as well as reports of excessive force and discourtesy. ``I went to Annapolis for tougher laws to hold cops accountable. I'm fighting to bring back the trust between the police and the community,'' she said. According to documents obtained Monday, the April 12 incident began when Gray ran from police. While the court documents allege that one of the arresting officers, Garrett Miller, took Gray into custody after finding a switchblade in his pocket, the Gray family attorney called the allegation a ``sideshow.'' Gray was carrying a ``pocket knife of legal size,'' attorney William Murphy said. Police never saw the knife and chased Gray only after he took off running, the attorney said. Court documents said Gray ``fled unprovoked upon noticing police presence.''. ``The officer noticed a knife clipped to the inside of ( Gray's ) front right pants pocket. The defendant was arrested without force or incident,'' the documents say. ``The knife was recovered by this officer and found to be a spring assisted, one-hand-operated knife.''. The mayor has questioned whether police should have pursued Gray in the first place. ``It is not necessarily probable cause to chase someone. So, we still have questions,'' Rawlings-Blake said. Gray was in perfect health until police chased and tackled him, Murphy said. Less than an hour later, he was on his way to a trauma clinic with a spinal injury, where he fell into a coma. The family has not seen the autopsy report yet, Murphy said, and relatives are still waiting to take possession of Gray's body. The family intends to have a second, private autopsy conducted once Baltimore police turn over the body, the attorney said. Police, according to their own timeline, spotted Gray, gave chase, caught him, cuffed him and requested a paddy wagon in fewer than four minutes. The transport van left with Gray about 11 minutes after that, police said, and another 30 minutes passed before ``units request paramedics to the Western District to transport the suspect to an area hospital.''. When cell phones began recording, Gray was already on the ground with three officers kneeling over him. He let out long screams. Officers had encountered him a minute earlier in an area where drug deals and crime are common, Deputy Police Commissioner Rodriguez said. Gray has an extensive criminal history, which appears to be mostly drug-related. The officers called for a prisoner transport van. Cell phone video taken from two positions showed officers lifting Gray, whose hands were cuffed, by his shoulders and dragging him to the back of the van. Officers put more restraints on Gray inside the van, police said, while surveillance video recorded him conscious and talking. That was at 8:54 a.m.b. At 9:24 a.m., police called an ambulance to pick Gray up. Murphy and angry residents of Baltimore want to know what happened in those 30 minutes in between. Police said Gray requested medical attention, including an inhaler, and an ambulance later took him to the University of Maryland Medical Center's Shock Trauma Center. ``He lapsed into a coma, died, was resuscitated, stayed in a coma and on Monday underwent extensive surgery at Shock Trauma to save his life,'' Murphy said. ``He clung to life for seven days.''. What we know and don't know about Gray's death. CNN's Suzanne Malveaux, Shawn Nottingham, AnneClaire Stapleton, Julian Cummings, Chris Cuomo, Ben Brumfield and Dana Ford contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The bizarre circumstances surrounding Freddie Gray's death have inflamed tensions across the country. How could a man suffer a severe spinal cord injury after getting arrested ? And what happened in the 30 minutes before he was taken to a hospital ?. Gray wavered in and out of a coma and died Sunday, one week after his arrest. It's not clear how he suffered the spinal cord injury. But Gray is far from the only suspect who died under questionable circumstances after he was already in custody. Here are several other cases :. Date of arrest : March 31, 2015. Date of death : March 31, 2015. What happened :. Police in Vineland, New Jersey, responded to a call of a disorderly person, and White was arrested and handcuffed. Police dispatch recordings include an officer saying White ``tried to grab my gun.''. One witness, Agustin Ayala, told the Vineland Daily Journal that White was resisting arrest. But two others told WCAU that police attacked White while he was already handcuffed. ``They punched him, stomped him, kicked him and then they let the dog out of the car,'' Ricardo Garcia told the station. ``The dog bit him on his face and around his body. There's no call for that. Once a man is handcuffed and unconscious, you should have stuck him in the patrol car and take him to the police station.''. Witness Luis Martinez gave a similar account. ``The other cop let the dog out, and they just kept punching him and the dog kept biting him at the same time,'' Martinez told WCAU. ``He was on the floor, like he was knocked out.''. As White was taken to a hospital, he became unresponsive, NJ.com reported. He was pronounced dead at the hospital. The aftermath :. The Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office has been investigating White's death, and officials have been waiting for the results of White's autopsy to learn the exact cause of death, NJ.com said. Two Vineland officers have been placed on administrative leave. And after Vineland police received criticism on its Facebook page about White's case, the department started hiding unfavorable comments, the Press of Atlantic City reported. An activist filed an Open Public Records Act request, saying the department's official Facebook page was a matter of public record. Vineland police later restored the critical comments on its page. Date of arrest : March 2, 2014. Date of death : March 2, 2014. What happened :. Sheriff's deputies in New Iberia, Louisiana, claimed White shot and killed himself in the back of a squad car -- even though White had been frisked and handcuffed. ``Short of him being Houdini or David Copperfield, it's not possible,'' White family attorney Carol Powell-Lexing said. The incident began when authorities were responding to a fight in a gas station parking lot. About six blocks from the store, an Iberia Parish deputy saw White and stopped him, state police said. According to the service report from the Sheriff's Office, Cpl. Justin Ortis received no description of the men involved in the fight. He was told only that they were black, ``and one of the males mentioned having a gun,'' the report said. White consented to a pat-down, and Ortis found marijuana in his pocket. Attorney Benjamin Crump said that detail makes the official narrative even more suspicious. ``If you pat someone down and you can feel a small package of marijuana, wouldn't you feel a gun ?'' he said. State police said once White arrived at the police station, he refused to get out of the patrol car. ``As the deputy requested assistance from other deputies, White produced a handgun and fired one round, striking himself in the back,'' state police said. White was pronounced dead at a local hospital. The aftermath :. An autopsy concluded White's death was a suicide -- but said he was shot in the chest, not in the back, like police had said. The autopsy report also said White was ``reportedly in a locked patrol car with his hands handcuffed behind him when officers heard a shot and found the decedent slumped over.''. State police have handed over their investigation to prosecutors, who said a decision won't be made until a federal civil rights investigation wraps up. Date of police encounter : July 5, 2011. Date of death : July 10, 2011. What happened :. Officers in Fullerton, California, were responding to a call about a homeless man looking into car windows and pulling on handles of parked cars. Video of the incident showed Thomas, who was schizophrenic, slow to cooperate. Fullerton police Officer Manuel Ramos then tells him : ``You see my fists ? They're getting ready to f -- you up.''. Thomas, who is unarmed and shirtless, stands and another officer walks over. They hit him with their batons and hold him on the ground as he begs for help. ``OK, I'm sorry, dude. I'm sorry !'' he screams. At one point, Thomas says he can't breathe. The officers tell him to lie on his stomach, put his hands behind his back and relax. Toward the end of the beating, the video shows, Thomas cries out for his father : ``Dad ! Help me. Help me. Help me, Dad.''. By the end of the video, he is lying in a pool of blood. The aftermath :. The Orange County coroner ruled Thomas' death a homicide and said he died after having his chest compressed, leaving him unable to breathe. Thomas' mother, Cathy Thomas, received a $ 1 million settlement from the city of Fullerton. Officer Ramos was charged with second-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter, and Cpl. Jay Patrick Cicinelli was charged of involuntary manslaughter and felony use of excessive force. Both pleaded not guilty. In 2014, a jury acquitted both Ramos and Cicinelli. Date of arrest : September 6, 2013. Date of death : September 7, 2013. What happened :. Azucena was arrested after running a red light and leading Los Angeles police on a chase. Over the next half hour, Azucena repeatedly said he had asthma and couldn't breathe, the Los Angeles Times reported. Officers continued ignoring him. ``Help me, help me, help me,'' he said, according to a report by the Los Angeles Board of Police Commissioners. ``I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Help me, please.''. ``You can breathe just fine,'' one sergeant told him, according to the Times. ``You can talk, so you can breathe.''. He didn't breathe for much longer. Azucena was so weak that officers had to carry him to a station's holding cell for booking and left him face-down on the floor, the Times reported. By the time paramedics arrived, Azucena's heart had stopped. The aftermath :. A coroner concluded that asthma probably killed Azucena and that his death was an accident. Last month, the Los Angeles City Council unanimously agreed to a $ 1.35 million settlement for Azucena's mother, the Times said. The investigation into the officers' actions is ongoing. Date of arrest : November 19, 2013. Date of death : November 19, 2013. What happened :. An officer in Durham, North Carolina, was taking Huerta to the police station for a second-degree trespassing violation. The Durham Police Department said the teen died from a self-inflicted gunshot while handcuffed in the back of the squad car. Durham police Chief Jose Lopez said gunshot residue tests were conducted on Huerta and the arresting officer, and the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation ``found that Huerta was wearing gloves and that his gloves had a saturation of gunshot residue on it. Officer ( Samuel ) Duncan's revealed that he had no gunshot residue on his hands.''. But Huerta's family, like Victor White's family in Louisiana, suspect foul play by police. The aftermath :. Hundreds of protesters took to the streets of Durham to decry Huerta's death. Some carried banners that read, ``Fue Matado Por La Policia'' or ``Murdered By Police.''. A vigil for Huerta turned violent, with six people arrested. The police chief said that as a Hispanic, he had trouble believing the allegations among the Hispanic community that Durham police unfairly target Latinos. CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin and Nick Valencia contributed to this report.
( CNN ) At least two people were taken into custody as protesters upset over the death of Freddie Gray scuffled Thursday evening with police on the streets of Baltimore. Tensions rose as demonstrators confronted police, several of whom shouted : ``Back up !''. The Baltimore Police Department said the two were detained for disorderly conduct and destruction of property. There were no other arrests and the protests -- on the whole -- were peaceful. Protesters rallied at City Hall before marching to a police station. Some walked through traffic. In one instance, they surrounded a police car. Gray died Sunday, one week after he was arrested by Baltimore police. At some point, he suffered a severe spinal cord injury. His family said his voice box was crushed and his neck snapped before he slipped into a coma and died. ``The police have a lot of questions that need to be answered,'' Andrew O'Connell, an attorney for the Gray family, told CNN. ``What was the reasonable suspicion ? Why were they arresting our client ? These are pretty big questions that need to be answered.''. ``He had no weapon in his hand. He was committing no crime and he wasn't hurting anybody. The police had no reasonable suspicion to stop or arrest him,'' the attorney said. While Baltimore police say five of the six officers involved in the arrest have provided statements to investigators, the department has not released details of what the officers said or how Gray might have suffered the fatal injury. Protesters are upset over the apparent lack of information, and -- recently -- a police union's comparison of the demonstrations to a ``lynch mob.''. ``While we appreciate the right of our citizens to protest and applaud the fact that, to date, the protests have been peaceful, we are very concerned about the rhetoric of the protests,'' the Baltimore Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 3 said in a statement issued Wednesday. ``In fact, the images seen on television look and sound much like a lynch mob in that they are calling for the immediate imprisonment of these officers without them ever receiving the due process that is the constitutional right of every citizen, including law enforcement officers.''. Scenes from Baltimore. That comparison drew swift and sharp criticism, given the history of lynchings of African-Americans in the United States. Rooted in the racial ire of the Civil War, the extrajudicial mob killings of blacks, other minorities and people opposed to oppression of minorities were common in the segregated South. More than 4,000 people were murdered between 1877 and 1950 in 12 Southern states, according to a recent report. But lynchings weren't restricted to the South, and they have deeply scarred race relations in the country. ``Which one is the #LynchMob again ?'' John Cotton tweeted, posting a photo of a peaceful protest next to photos of Gray during his arrest and hospitalization. ``The choice of words is not only ironic, it's sad,'' said O'Connell, the attorney for the Grays. ``Police officers are never the subject of a lynch mob. It's actually usually the other way around,'' he told CNN's ``Erin Burnett OutFront.''. ``And in the context of the powder keg that Baltimore city is right now, referring to the citizens of Baltimore city who are peacefully protesting as a `lynch mob' doesn't serve to keep the peace. It only heightens the flames, or fans the flames of people who are already on edge.''. Amid protests, officials advised people to clear the area or expect delays. A statement encouraged employees who work downtown to get out of the area to ``avoid major disruptions.''. Baltimore police requested and received additional personnel from Maryland State Police. Thirty-two troopers arrived to help with crowd control and serve in a ``backup capacity'' for police, according to Erin Montgomery, a spokesperson for Gov. Larry Hogan. A small rally and press conference was held at noon, organized by the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Peoples Power Assemblies. They announced that they will conduct their own investigation into the events that led to Gray's death. Thursday's events follow a series of demonstrations this week, with protesters demanding elusive answers. Baltimore protests : 5 questions demonstrators are asking. Among the questions : Did something happen inside the police transport vehicle that caused Gray's fatal spinal injury ? And what took place in the 30 minutes before police called paramedics to pick Gray up ?. ``Our position is something happened in that van,'' police union attorney Michael Davey said. ``We just don't know what.''. But one question has already been addressed : Did officers have the right to chase Gray in the first place ?. Police first encountered Gray on April 12 as they patrolled an area known for crime and drug activity. When Gray saw them, authorities said, he started running. Gray's family attorney and protesters claim police didn't have any probable cause to chase him, but did so only because he was ``running while black.''. But Davey said officers had every right to give chase. ``There is a Supreme Court case that states that if you are in a high-crime area, and you flee from the police unprovoked, the police have the legal ability to pursue you, and that's what they did,'' he said. ``In this type of an incident, you do not need probable cause to arrest. You just need a reasonable suspicion to make the stop.''. Gray was arrested after police found what they said was a switchblade on him. An attorney for Gray's family has said the knife was a pocket knife of legal size. Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said he met Thursday with the family. ``There was a lot of pain in that family, and I can understand it. If that was my son that ended up the same way, I would be angry,'' he told CNN. Updates and images from the field. One video of Gray's arrest shows officers dragging him to a police van, his legs dangling limply behind him. ``His leg look broke !'' a bystander yells as a witness captures the arrest on a cell phone video. That witness, who only wants to be identified as Kiona, said she knew Gray as a joker and a ladies' man. But that day, he said only one thing to her. ``When I ran up the street and seen him, the first thing I asked him was he OK because I heard him screaming,'' Kiona said. ``He didn't never say yes or no, he just said' I can't breathe' and just was yelling.''. Former Baltimore Police Commissioner Leonard Hamm said he was disturbed by video of the arrest. ``What I see is a person in distress, and what should have happened is at that point, they should have called for medical attention to help him out,'' he told CNN's ``New Day.''. Hamm led the department from 2004 to 2007. He said he was surprised and disappointed by what has happened. ``I thought we were better than that,'' he said. ``I thought we were better trained than that.''. It's not clear whether Gray was injured during the arrest. His family has not yet seen the autopsy report, attorney William Murphy said. The medical examiner's office told CNN it could take up to 90 days to release the report, which is typical. Gray's body is now in his family's care and has been transported to a funeral home. The family has not specified which one. That information will be released when arrangements have been finalized. Mary Koch, a member of the family's legal team, told CNN that an independent autopsy will be conducted at the facility. The police department is investigating what happened and will turn over its finding to the state attorney's office May 1, the department said. ``As with any criminal investigation, detectives will continue to pursue the evidence wherever it leads, for as long as it takes.''. The Justice Department is investigating whether Gray's civil rights were violated during the April 12 arrest. And Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said she ``absolutely'' believes an outside investigation is needed, especially given the city's dark history of police misconduct. According to The Baltimore Sun, the city has paid about $ 5.7 million over the past four years to settle more than 100 cases of allegations of police wrongdoing. Police didn't admit fault in any of the cases. The police union said in a statement Wednesday that the reason for the settlements was simple : City officials believe lawsuits are too costly. CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Catherine E. Shoichet, Kevin Conlon and Dana Ford contributed to this report.
Atlanta ( CNN ) A fake name on a Facebook post can still get you in real trouble, especially when you're threatening to shoot every white cop you see. Ebony Dickens of East Point, Georgia, posted her Facebook rant under the name Tiffany Milan, police said. ``All Black ppl should rise up and shoot at every white cop in the nation starting NOW,'' said the post made on Monday. ``I condone black on white killings. Hell they condone crimes against us.''. The post was removed a day later, just before Dickens was arrested, CNN affiliate WSB reported. ``I thought about shooting every white cop I see in the head until I'm either caught by the police or killed by them. Ha !!!! I think I can pull it off. Might kill at least 15 tomorrow, I'm plotting now.''. Needless to say, it got law enforcement's attention. Not only the East Point police, but Atlanta police -- whose homeland security unit ``worked diligently.. to identify the true identity of the poster and her whereabouts,'' said Atlanta police spokeswoman Elizabeth Espy -- as well as the FBI and federal Homeland Security Department. ``That's 15 people that she's talking about killing within a day or so, so whether she is serious or not that's something that we have to take seriously,'' East Point police Lt. Cliff Chandler told WSB. Police in East Point -- a city of about 34,000 people just south of Atlanta -- said in a statement that, in addition to detailing how many police might die and threatening white officers specifically, the posts ``indicated that the acts were being plotted and were in motion.''. After connecting Dickens to the Facebook post, authorities obtained a search warrant for her residence. They took her into custody while executing that warrant. ``A firearm along with three computers was located during the search,'' East Point police said. Dickens, 33, appeared in court Wednesday on a charge of disseminating information related to terrorist acts. A judge set a $ 10,000 bond for her and banned her from social media. She was then transferred to Fulton County Jail, where she remained until bonding out at 6:19 a.m. Thursday, according to county sheriff's office spokeswoman Tracy Flanagan.
( CNN ) It took more than seven decades, but England finally got its delivery of tons of silver coins. For most of those years, the money was deep at the bottom of the Atlantic, the monetary casualty of a cruel World War II sinking. In November 1942, the unguarded SS City of Cairo was sunk by a German U-boat while carrying 296 civilians and cargo that included 100 tons of silver. The vessel sunk to more than 16,800 feet under the surface ( 5,150 meters ) where it went undiscovered until 2011 when Deep Ocean Search decided to go looking for it. The sinking was the stuff of legend. The City of Cairo was bringing silver rupees from India to England as part of the war effort. After a stop in Brazil, two torpedos sank the ship in the Atlantic. After the ship went under, the U-boat reportedly surfaced and the captain said to the survivors in lifeboats : ``Goodnight, sorry for sinking you.'' The captain's lament is the title of a book about the event. Only a handful of people died as the ship sank but about 100 more passed away during the desperate attempt of the six boats to make it to land, which was hundreds of miles away. When the last of the lifeboats was found 51 days later, all but two people in it had died. Deep Ocean Search said in a news release that during the 2011 search it located an unnatural object on radar. A sub found the City of Cairo split into two parts, buried by silt. ``Under contract to the UK Ministry of Transport, DOS recovered several tens of tons of silver coins from a depth of ( 5,150 meters ),'' the company said. The depth is a world record, the company claimed. Other deep-water operations reported in the media that are close to this depth include the 1987 search for the wreck of a South African Airways plane at 16,000 feet ( 4,700 meters ) and the discovery of the SS Gairsoppa at about 15,400 feet ( 4,800 meters ) in the North Atlantic in 2011. The BBC reported the City of Cairo salvage operation was completed in September 2013, but the British government made the company keep it secret until this week. The coins were melted and the silver sold, the BBC reported. Deep Ocean Search got a percentage of the sale, and the UK Treasury the rest, according to the BBC. At today's rates, 100 tons of silver would be worth about $ 50 million. Remains of USS Oklahoma crew to be exhumed at Pearl Harbor. CNN's Jessica King contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Are you a boxing fan ? Fancy the best seats in the house for Saturday night's showdown in Las Vegas between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao ? Got a spare $ 361,894 for a couple of tickets ?. No ? Ah, well then you might have a problem. Yes, while most of the tickets for the highly-anticipated clash have sold out, there are still some floating around on secondary sites with ringside seats going at crazy money. A ticket at ringside will cost you $ 180,000 -- a knockout price which might have you seeing stars. As of lunchtime Friday, the most expensive seat on sale through the StubHub website, was retailing for a mammoth $ 128,705 but has since skyrocketed. Tickets were released last Thursday, just eight days before one of the biggest fights in history after legal wrangling between the two camps. However only around 1,000 were available to the general public, the rest of the estimated 16,500 tickets split between the fighters' camps and the casino as well as promoters and sponsors. Not long after some were made available on resale websites at a mark up that could only be dreamed about even by the sharpest financial trader. Those at the lower end of the eye-watering scale -- priced between $ 1,500 and $ 7,500 -- were snapped up in a matter of minutes. The cheapest priced ticket being offered on StubHub as of Monday is $ 4,600 with that seat right at the back of the MGM Grand arena.,. ``We've never seen anything like this in boxing, and I don't think in any sporting event,'' Bob Arum, Pacquiao's promoter, told CNN,. And Arum isn't worried that the steep prices would keep fans away. ``The 1 % has so much money, they don't know how to spend it. Whether it's yachts, paintings or tickets to a fight, money means nothing,'' he said. ``There was a craze for tickets and under our agreement with Mayweather Promotions, we felt we were being deprived of our fair share of the tickets ( from ) the standpoint of number and location. ``It was very, very important to my fighter Manny Pacquiao, to the Philippines people.. Manny has friends and family like you can't believe -- that will be in account for 800 or 900 tickets themselves.''
( CNN ) On Thursday, NPR -- headquartered in Washington, just 40 miles away from Baltimore -- ran its latest update on the urban turmoil that has erupted in the wake of the death of 25-year-old Freddie Gray because of still-unexplained spinal injuries that occurred while he was under police custody. Unfortunately, while it was a freshly produced segment, it was hardly a new story. Titled ``Baltimore Unrest Reveals Tensions Between African-Americans And Asians,'' the five-minute piece is urgently introduced with the promise that it will reveal ``what's really happening in the more troubled neighborhoods of this majority black city,'' going on state that a key ingredient of the unrest was African-Americans ``targeting Asian-owned businesses for destruction.''. A similar claim was made after Ferguson's uprising in August of last year. Indeed, it has been a toxic feature of the coverage of many episodes of mass metropolitan violence since the late 1980s, the era during which the trope of widespread hostility between Asian and black communities first took root in the media consciousness. Yes, interethnic tensions continue to exist, though they are hardly limited to Asians and blacks. And yes, this has resulted in troubling incidents and tragedies on both sides. But while reports say that during the chaotic social breakdowns of the past year, black-owned businesses were mostly protected during bouts of violence, there's little evidence to suggest a pattern in which Asian businesses have been actively targeted out of racial animus. Instead, it seems as if Asian-owned stores have experienced damage partly because they make up a portion of establishments operating in the most economically vulnerable and socially volatile of neighborhoods. In other words, they were collateral damage, along with other stores in the vicinity of riots. So it's time to call this persistent meme what it is : A misleading, hyperbolic and dangerous distraction, one that shifts blame away from the real issues. As Jennifer Lee, sociology professor at University of California, Irvine, and author of the 2002 book ``Civility in the City : Blacks, Jews and Koreans in Urban America,'' notes, ``the mainstream media continues to pit minority groups against one another to draw attention from larger structural problems that plague poor, disadvantaged communities. By directing our attention to interminority conflict, it directs blame away from the structures that perpetuate gross inequality and toward individual problems.''. Let's be honest. There were then -- and still are -- legitimate issues that exist between immigrant storeowners and the largely African American customers they serve that are rooted in extensive cultural differences. There's no denying that friction exists in the daily transaction between embattled communities trying hard to coexist under economic and social pressures. For example, in 1993, the robbery and shooting of Joel Lee, a 21-year-old Korean American at Towson State University, and the subsequent acquittal of his killer, was a point of contention between the Korean and African American communities. But things are different now. Decades after the height of media-inflamed tension between Asian and African Americans, patterns of immigration have shifted. Stores once operated by recent Korean immigrants are now owned by strivers from South Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The population of Baltimore has shrunk and its economy has contracted. Among merchants, there's ever-greater recognition that they and their customers are tied by a red thread, surviving or failing together. For decades, black and Asian advocacy groups have been trying to bridge differences between the communities. For example, the Baltimore-based Korean-American Grocers & Licensed Beverage Association of Maryland, founded in 1995, has worked to support its entrepreneurial members in their own attempts to address longstanding issues of neglect and abuse by Baltimore's police, while also encouraging them to build deeper ties with their constituents. A KAGRO-sponsored annual scholarship program has given hundreds of thousands of dollars in college grants to children growing up in the Baltimore neighborhoods their member retailers serve. These aren't the kind of stories you'll hear in the media. It's easier to focus on attention-grabbing anecdotes rather than the long, hard work of adjustment and accommodation going on within and around communities. Back in 1995, the Baltimore Sun profiled Soon Jae and Eun Ja Lee, owners of Lee's Food Market in the West Baltimore's Sandtown neighborhood -- the same part of the city that NPR called out as a locus of Asian-black tension. The story highlighted the Lees' openness to the community, their politeness and care for their customers and their outstanding generosity, which includes both free snacks to schoolchildren and the distribution of tens of thousands of free food baskets to needy local families each year. I spoke with Eun Ja Lee, calling her without warning to check on the status of the Lees' four-decade-old business after the violence of Monday and Tuesday. Were they open ? Were they safe ?. ``Oh, of course we're open, we're always open !'' said Mrs. Lee, warmly and brightly. ``This week, many customers came in and said to me `Mrs. Lee, don't worry you are part of our community, you are our family. We will make sure you are OK -- just stay open !' We love it. We love it.''. And yet, no one has come and interviewed her at their untouched and fully operational family market, nor have they talked with her customers, stoutly loyal after 37 years of patronage. Reinforcing the tired narrative of black-Asian interracial tension generates heat, but not light. There's a far more complex and nuanced relationship between these two urban populations, one that is in an ongoing state of evolution -- and it deserves to be told, not buried under cliches and clickbait.
Centennial, Colorado ( CNN ) After months of intensive questioning, a jury has finally been picked for the trial of Colorado movie theater massacre suspect James Holmes. Twelve jurors and twelve alternates are on the list. The group includes 19 women and five men. It's almost entirely white and mostly middle-aged. It's a key step in the case, and it's been a long time coming. Jury selection started in January with 9,000 potential jurors. But the legal wrangling is the case is just revving up. Holmes' defense attorneys asked for a change of venue after the jury was seated Tuesday. The judge denied their request, noting that a jury had already been seated. Opening statements in the trial are scheduled to begin on April 27. Holmes is accused of killing 12 people and injuring 70 others when he allegedly opened fire inside a packed theater during the midnight showing of ``The Dark Knight Rises'' on July 20, 2012. The one-time neuroscience doctoral student faces 165 counts, including murder and attempted murder charges. Now 27, he has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. If convicted of the most serious charges, he could face a death sentence. Wearing a gray dress shirt and tan slacks, Holmes sat quietly in court on Tuesday, looking relaxed and leaning back in his chair for much of the day as lawyers made their picks from the jury pool. He looked down often, but smiled occasionally, such as when the judge made a joke about a juror needing to share his Cheetos and when the district attorney accidentally addressed a male juror as a ``Miss.''. Even though he looked calm, defense lawyer Tamara Brady started her question and answer session with jurors Tuesday by expression concerns about Holmes getting a fair and impartial trial, saying ``I'm nervous'' and ``my client is nervous.''. District Attorney George Brauchler warned jurors to brace themselves. Tuesday's court session, he said, was the lawyers' last chance to find out if there is ``any reason you shouldn't be one of the 24 to sit through the four to five months of a horrible roller coaster through the worst haunted house you can imagine.''. CNN's Ana Cabrera and Sara Weisfeldt reported from Centennial City. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet reported from Atlanta. CNN's Michael Martinez contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Robert Boardwine's path to fatherhood was unconventional, but Virginia's appeals court said Tuesday he is legally entitled to be a part of his son's life. Boardwine's friend, Joyce Bruce, had used his sperm and a turkey baster to get pregnant. She thought after she learned she was with child that they should just be friends. She also thought that because they never had sex, she was entitled to be the boy's sole parent, according to court documents. The Court of Appeals of Virginia decided differently in weighing the commonwealth's assisted conception statute and denying Bruce's appeal to deny Boardwine visitation. It agreed with a circuit court ruling that method of insemination didn't come from medical technology. ``The plain meaning of the term `medical technology' does not encompass a kitchen implement such as a turkey baster,'' the appeals court wrote in its decision. Bruce's attorney, Monica T. Monday, said she would need to talk to her client before she can comment about whether they will file an appeal. Boardwine initially was hesitant when Bruce approached him in 2010 with the turkey baster idea, the court document says. They talked about writing their agreement down on paper, but that never happened. They tried the turkey baster method a few times. He'd come over to her house, go to a room alone, bring his sperm in a plastic cup, they'd chat, and he'd leave. Then she'd use the kitchen utensil and wait. After she didn't get pregnant, she twice tried a fertility doctor. No luck. She and Boardwine tried a few more times, and in July, she learned she was going to have a baby. Boardwine came by the house with a stuffed bear and clothes for the baby. Things were OK. He thought he was going to be able to see the newborn as often as he wanted. She thought he could have ``some involvement,'' the appeals court decision says, but she would be the sole parent. He'd be like any other friend, certainly not have formal visitation. Then they argued. Over what to name the baby. They didn't speak for more than five months after that. The baby was born, and Boardwine says he learned about the baby's arrival from someone else. He went to the hospital and saw the boy at Bruce's home. Joyce Bruce said the visits were ``strained.''. She told Boardwine to stop coming. So he took the matter to court. Bruce argued that she used ``noncoital reproductive technology'' to get pregnant, and Boardwine was technically a sperm donor. He argued that he always expected to be a dad, going to the kid's games and taking part in making decisions on schools and medical needs. A court-ordered DNA test proved Boardwine is the biological father. The appeals court affirmed the lower court's ruling, saying the turkey baster doesn't constitute reproductive technology. Boardwine was awarded joint legal custody and visitation. CNN also reached out to his attorney Tuesday but didn't get a reply. CNN's Tony Marco contributed to this report.
( CNN ) He might have just won one of sport's most prestigious events, but it wasn't long before Jordan Spieth's thoughts turned to his autistic sister in the glow of victory. The 21-year-old golfer equaled Tiger Woods' 1997 record winning score of 18 under par to realize his childhood ambitions of donning the green jacket on Sunday as he swept through the field to become Masters champion at Augusta. An ice-cool display made him the second-youngest winner -- behind only Woods, who was 155 days younger that year -- and only the fifth man to have led from start to finish over the tournament's four days. ``I miss her a lot, and I wish she could have been here,'' Spieth told CNN's Don Riddell in the aftermath of his triumph as he opened up about younger sibling Ellie, who was not able to attend the tournament. ``But I can't wait to get back to her and maybe let her try on the jacket. ``I'll have to bring her back a present from here. That's what she'll be expecting.''. Amid all the pressure of playing professional golf, Spieth's 14-year-old sister provides him with perspective. ``How has she shaped my upbringing ? Well, she's the most special part of our family. She's the funniest part of our family,'' he said. ``I love having her around. She's an incredible sister, my biggest supporter. She is somebody who you can watch and then reflect on the big picture of life and understand that all these frustrations in a day, or in a round of golf, are really secondary. ``We wouldn't have that realization without her.''. At the age of just 14, the prodigy from Texas -- who was named after basketball legend Michael Jordan -- had been clear about what he wanted : his aim was to take the Masters title one day. And he betrayed virtually no sign of nerves throughout his stunningly dominant performance, letting slip only a muttered ``oh dear'' when he marginally sliced a tee shot halfway through the final round. Last year, Spieth lost the lead just before the nine-hole turn on the last day -- but he never looked like being denied this time, beating Phil Mickelson's Masters record of 26 birdies for good measure. ``To sit with this jacket on and to be a part of the history of Augusta National and the Masters was something I watched slip away last year,'' said Spieth, who described the reality of winning as ``even better'' than his dreams. ``I had a chip on my shoulder ( about that ). I carried some momentum into this week and it all came together, right at the right time.''. Shown a picture of himself wearing one of the most coveted pieces of clothing in sport, Spieth, born in Dallas, added : ``Putting on the jacket, it looks good. It looks good. I'm OK wearing green !''. He couldn't stop grinning as he said that he hoped to be finishing his final Masters appearance in 50 years' time, but added that he would ``still remember what it was like walking up the 18th hole today.''. And as he looked less far ahead, he revealed that he would be staying true to his roots at next year's Champions Dinner. Asked what he would put on the menu for that event, he said : ``It would be some form of Texas BBQ.''. The unassuming Spieth's success brings to mind other stars whose supreme ability and self-belief saw them become major champions in the early days of their careers. In 1985, German tennis player Boris Becker stunned Wimbledon when, at the age of 17, he defeated Kevin Curren to become the event's youngest ever men's champion -- a record that still stands today. Becker said people ``thought I had done something I wasn't supposed to do, something that shouldn't have been possible. But I did it -- and then I did it again at 18, just to make the point.''. American player Michael Chang was 118 days younger than Becker when he won the French Open in 1989, while Swiss star Martina Hingis was just 16 when she triumphed at the 1997 Australian Open. Last year, at the age of only 15, Martin Odegaard became Norway's youngest international footballer when he played in a friendly against the United Arab Emirates, provoking huge media interest and the attention of Europe's top clubs, before he signed for Spanish giant Real Madrid. For them, as for Spieth, perhaps success was meant to be from the earliest days. And as he looked at a picture of himself with a golf club in hand, taken at the age of 6 or 7 at his grandparents' home in North Carolina, he reflected on the determination that had put him in the green jacket, referring to another Major winner. ``How about the focus on that swing ?'' he asked. ``That's a little John Daly-like there, isn't it ?''
( CNN ) It's the simplest possible assignment, but it always teaches a huge lesson. Every year, Denver teacher Kyle Schwartz passes out Post-it notes to her third grade students and asks them to complete the sentence, ``I wish my teacher knew..''. Many of the students she teaches at Doull Elementary just wish they had something in common with her, that she knew soccer or video games. But sometimes, their wishes bring tears to her eyes, and offer a glimpse of painful struggles in their young lives. There's a student who misses her father : ``I haven't seen him in six years.''. Another who wants to tell her she's lonely : ``I don't have friend to play with me.''. Still another who wants to explain why her reading log goes unsigned : ``My mom is not around a lot.''. And other who has big hopes for the future : ``I want to go to college.''. The assignment sprang from the kinds of conversations teachers have all the time, Schwartz said : ``What do our students need ? How can we best serve them ?''. Schwartz always gives her students the option to write their names on their notes or remain anonymous ; of sharing them only with her, or with the entire class. It surprises her how often students stand up and want to read their wishes out loud, like the shy student who shared, ``I wish my teacher knew I'm nervous all the time.''. ``They feel respected, they feel safe enough to share some of these more sensitive ones,'' said Schwartz, who has been teaching for three years. ``Kids can share what they feel comfortable with.''. Recently, Schwartz began to post some students' responses on Twitter using the hashtag #IWishMyTeacherKnew. It spread, as teachers around the country tried it with their own classrooms. They sometimes reveal what kids are most worried about right now, like the child whose mother was sick, or another who had just experienced bullying. One student just wants more attention from the teacher. Sometimes, they have a little fun : ``I wish my teacher knew how to do a backflip.''. Occasionally, students want to reassure their teachers that that they're doing a great job. There's a lot for teachers to learn, too : ``They are KIDS who deal with a lot as they grow up,'' one educator posted on Twitter. Schwartz said she's learned not to assume what her students wish. Although most of the students at her school live in poverty, not every message is about a material need. There's no pressure to share something they're not ready to talk about, she said, and ``they're acutely aware of their own needs.''. Through assignments like this, she is, too. As her idea spread, many Twitter users asked how they can help to support her students. She's pointed them toward a DonorsChoose.org fund where she posts a classroom project wish list. So far, most have been fulfilled.
( CNN ) Charlotte Dujardin says she is ``living the dream'' as she cements her status as a dressage legend. Dujardin and Valegro won their their second consecutive Reem Acra FEI World Cup Dressage title in Las Vegas at the weekend -- a trophy to sit alongside Olympic gold and the world and European titles. While their score of 94.196 narrowly missed their own world record in the sport, it was still a full 10 percentage points clear of any rival inside the Thomas & Mack Arena. Dutchman Edward Gal and Glock's Undercover were second with 84.696, ahead of Germany's Jessica von Bredow-Werndl and Unee BB in third with 80.464. ``Valegro just loves his job,'' said Dujardin. ``I don't have to force him to do anything, I just sit there and steer and off I go. There's no sweating, no pushing, no pulling. He knows his job and it's just fantastic'' added Dujardin, who couldn't stop smiling as she was pictured next to an Elvis impersonator after her win. Not everyone finds World Cup success quite that relaxing. Switzerland's Steve Guerdat may be the London Olympic champion, but his Longines FEI World Cup jumping victory in Vegas came at the 10th attempt. Guerdat and Albfuehren's Paille had the last fence down and narrowly avoided a time fault that would have denied them the outright win. ``I don't really want to think about it,'' he joked. ``Coming to the last I knew the time was tight. ``I just went as fast as I could to the finish line, but unfortunately there was a big fence in the way.''. He added : ``I've been three times on the podium, twice in the jump-off and always finished in the top 10. I always wanted to win this.''. The World Cup Finals are among the most prestigious equestrian titles, but the weekend's events in Las Vegas were notable for the success of younger riders. American dressage rider Laura Graves, a 27-year-old who burst onto the international scene with fifth place at last year's World Equestrian Games, improved to fourth in Vegas. Her performance was outdone by Irish showjumper Bertram Allen, who took bronze on Sunday at the age of 19. The teenager is likely to rise through the ranks of the world's top 10 following that performance, while gaining precious Olympic qualification points. Allen and Molly Malone finished behind French rider Penelope Leprevost, on board Vagabond de la Pomme, who took silver.
( CNN ) They are superstars flown in from across the globe -- and they probably had more legroom than you. The world's leading showjumping and dressage horses have reached Las Vegas for this week's World Cup Finals. The man who arranged their travel says, for horses, it's business class all the way. ``There are two horses per box,'' explains Tim Dutta, who oversaw the loading of more than $ 150 million in equine talent onto a Qatar Airways flight at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport earlier this month. ``We pay attention to each horse's little idiosyncrasies and requirements -- do they like wet hay, or not ? Do we use sea salt to encourage them to drink ?. ``I like the horses to have some quiet time too, they need that. So when the aircraft is at cruise then they are left alone for a while, to have a snooze and relax, without being bothered by anyone.''. No horse is snoozing now. The flights are over and they're in Las Vegas to work. Vegas is home to the finals for the sixth time since first hosting showjumping in 2000. The venue is the Thomas & Mack Center, a stone's throw from the Strip, which had the distinction of being opened by Frank Sinatra and Diana Ross in 1983. Organizers believe more than 80,000 fans will attend this week's event, which boasts an $ 8 million budget. Expect Elvis Presley beaming down from the Jumbotron ; chefs from the Bellagio serving VIP guests who paid upwards of $ 1,500 a ticket ; and tennis legend Steffi Graf presenting the trophies. In the past, that was not your usual showjumping and dressage atmosphere -- but that's something the sport is trying to change. Hosting world-class horsesport in Vegas is a way to raise its profile in the United States. As with this month's showjumping on Miami Beach, the thinking is location, location, location. For the riders, few locations are comparable. ``It's like a Wrigley Field feel,'' said Tim Keener, one of the Vegas organizers, describing how the bowl of the arena will seat spectators unusually close to the action. Showjumping comes here for the showbiz. In previous years, trophies have been handed out by flying showgirls descending from the rafters. Elvis impersonators have burst into the arena on horseback. This year, a ``selfie booth'' will let fans crowd in with leading riders for awkward photos on their phones -- and there will be quite some choice of riders. Since the World Cup Finals are among the most prestigious titles available, the cast list over the next four days features almost all of the world's top names. In showjumping, Germany's Daniel Deusser is both the defending World Cup champion and the new world No. 1, unseating Britain's Scott Brash. The Germans are the most successful nation at the World Cup Finals, with 10 showjumping victories, and three-time champion Marcus Ehning will also compete. The hosts have a superstar and 2013 champion in Beezie Madden, while 2012 champion Rich Fellers will ride aptly named ``comeback king'' Flexible, a horse undeterred by a series of illnesses and injuries which would have seen almost any other stallion retire. In dressage, Britain's Charlotte Dujardin and Valero are the runaway favorites to successfully defend last year's World Cup title. The partnership is the first ever to hold the World Cup alongside Olympic, world and European gold. Few riders are expected to mount a serious challenge if Dujardin and Valegro perform well, but watch out for Germany's Isabell Werth and up-and-coming US rider Laura Graves. Graves, 27, has barely spent a year on the U.S. senior team, yet finished fifth in last year's World Equestrian Games on board Verdades. The action begins on Thursday, April 16, with dressage reaching a climax on the Saturday and showjumping a day later. But if you miss it, the chances are you won't have to wait long for another chance. Vegas is so in love with horses, organizers are already planning a bid to bring the event back in 2019.
Tokyo ( CNN ) It's a bird -- It's a plane -- It's an insanely fast Japanese bullet train. A Japan Railway maglev train hit 603 kilometers per hour ( 374 miles per hour ) on an experimental track in Yamanashi Tuesday, setting a decisive new world record. A spokesperson said the train spent 10.8 seconds traveling above 600 kilometers per hour, during which it covered 1.8 kilometers ( 1.1 miles ). That's nearly 20 football fields in the time it took you to read the last two sentences. Takeo Ookanda, who runs an exhibition center next to the test track, said witnesses erupted with excitement and applause when the new record was set. ``I was moved just like many other visitors here today,'' he told CNN. ``This maglev project.. ( increases ) the hope that Japan can have a good growth again in the future.''. The train broke its own record from last Thursday, when it ran at 590 kilometers per hour ( 366 miles per hour ) on a test track. That beat the old record of 581 kilometers per hour ( 361 miles per hour ), which was set in 2003 during another Japanese maglev test. Right now, China operates the world's fastest commercial maglev, which has hit 431 kilometers per hour ( 268 miles per hour ) on a route through Shanghai. By contrast, the fastest train in the United States, Amtrak's Acela Express, is only capable of 241 kilometers per hour ( 150 miles per hour ), though it usually plods along at half that speed. Unlike traditional trains, maglev trains work by using magnets to push the train away from the tracks and drive the train forward. Japan's maglevs don't use metal tracks -- instead, they float nearly 10 cm ( 4 inches ) above special guideways, allowing for frictionless movement. Japan Railways has been testing their train to figure out the best operational speed for a planned route between Tokyo and Nagoya, scheduled to begin service in 2027. That trip can take nearly 5 hours by car. But in the future, a maglev train could finish the journey in 40 minutes. READ MORE : The future of transportation will blow your hair back. CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki contributed reporting.
( CNN ) Two CNN Heroes are among the earthquake survivors in Kathmandu, Nepal. And they are struggling in the aftermath. Anuradha Koirala, who rescues victims of sex trafficking, has a rehabilitation center in Kathmandu that is home to 425 young women and girls. While her primary facility seems structurally unharmed, all of the children have been sleeping outdoors because of aftershocks, followed by a second earthquake on May 12. The once-vibrant campus has gone from a place of safety and healing to one of uncertainty and worry. ``We are suffering with rain, strong wind. The fear is not gone from us. It is very, very hard,'' said Koirala, the founder of the nonprofit Maiti Nepal and the 2010 CNN Hero of the Year. The public has been warned not to use the main water line due to risk of cholera. Koirala's group is relying on bottled water and is now rationing food. Still, she has offered to take in 200 other girls orphaned by the disaster. ``These girls are most vulnerable, because now people will target them,'' Koirala said. ``They could be victims of any forms of sexual abuse. Maybe rape, maybe they will be trafficked, anything.. If I get more support I will take as many as I can.''. About five miles away, the wall of Koirala's HIV/AIDS hospice has crumbled. Home to 115 girls, many of whom are terminally ill, the facility is under guard. ``They're not injured, but they are terrified,'' Koirala said. ``Everything is broken in the hospice.''. Koirala's group also has about a dozen other homes throughout the district, and all of them have been damaged. ``It's really very sad for me and for my children,'' Koirala said. ``This disaster, the noise and the way it shook, I can not get over it. I was not afraid that I was going to be killed. I was afraid about what is going to happen next.''. Another CNN Hero, Pushpa Basnet, and the 45 children she cares for were also forced to evacuate their residence. They are now living on the ground in a nearby field. ``Physically, we are not hurt. But mentally, we are,'' said Basnet, whose Early Childhood Development Center provides a home and education to children whose parents are incarcerated. Basnet says the building's walls are all cracked, and the staff is afraid it might fall down. She and the older children created a shelter using the frame of a greenhouse, taping plastic around the sides to protect themselves. ``It's really cold in the middle of the night ; there are lots of fox in the field,'' Basnet said. ``We are really scared.''. They also don't have much water or food, Basnet says. But she is trying to stay positive. ``I think for the time being, whatever we have, we should be happy, you know ? Because at least we have our life,'' she said.'' ( My kids ) all are safe. That's the most important thing for me.''. Basnet's ``Butterfly Home'' -- the permanent residence she was building for the children -- also suffered extensive damage in the quake. Basnet had hoped to complete construction in the next six months, with the opening ceremony set for October. Basnet purchased the land for the home with prize money she received as the 2012 Hero of the Year. ``When the earthquake hit that land, all my dreams were scattered,'' she said. ``I have to restart again.''. Still, Basnet is quick to point out that so many other survivors have nothing and are desperately in need of aid. To that end, several CNN Heroes have been assisting in relief efforts in Nepal. Jake Wood's disaster relief organization, Team Rubicon, has a team of experienced veterans and first responders on the ground in Kathmandu. The group deployed a medical and assessment team to aid the Nepalese people in several remote villages outside of the city. Six canine-firefighter search teams from the United States also assisted in rescue and recovery efforts. The teams were trained by Wilma Melville's National Disaster Search Dog Foundation and were deployed as part of a larger rescue force that includes structural engineers, hazmat experts and doctors. Tom Henderson's ShelterBox, which provides emergency shelter and lifesaving supplies, has so far committed to help more than 15,000 families. Dr. Laura Stachel's group, We Care Solar, sent solar suitcases to health care workers, providing them with light and power as they aid survivors. Arlene Samen's group, One Heart World-Wide, has set up tented birthing centers where pregnant women can safely deliver their babies, especially in hard-hit districts. Robin Lim, a disaster response midwife who founded Bumi Sehat, joined Samen in Kathmandu to help the mothers. Doc Hendley's nonprofit, Wine to Water, partnered with Appalachian State University in order to distribute 1,000 water filters where they are most needed in Nepal. The group says one filter can provide water for up to 10 people and last for up to 10 years if maintained properly.
( CNN ) Thump. The University of Nebraska at Omaha is getting a new $ 81.6 million stadium for its hockey, basketball and volleyball teams. Thump. It'll have luxury suites and everything. Thump. But it seems all anyone can talk about these days.. THUMP. .. is the taco cannon. That's right, we said taco cannon. An Omaha taco shop has teamed up with the university to shoot tacos into the stands at sporting events. That the foil-wrapped eats will make to fans was made evident when Voodoo Tacos owner Eric Newton demonstrated the power of the cannon for CNN affiliate KETV. That they'll make it undamaged ? Not so much. ``I wouldn't say it would be as restaurant quality when it gets to them, but it's edible,'' Newton said. With this latest technological development, the taco will join t-shirts, stuffed toys, balls, biscuits and the lowly hot dog in hurtling into the stands at public gatherings. UNO fans, um, ate the idea up, sending #tacocannon hurtling past #EarthDay as the No. 1 trending topic Wednesday in Omaha. ``How we roll in Omaha.. Frozen Four appearances and projectile tacos,'' Twitter user mavpuck said, referring to the school's recent, and sadly taco-less, appearance in the NCAA hockey tournament semifinals. ``This just might be the greatest invention. EVER,'' thetoddbryant wrote on Twitter. The tacos will start flying this fall, when the school's new arena is scheduled to open. But Voodoo Tacos has already scored, catching plenty of publicity months ahead of opening night. ``My partners laughed and me and said `that's dumb,''' Newton told KETV. ``Now they're emailing me and saying, `About the best thing we've ever bought.'''
Phoenix, Arizona ( CNN ) Nearly 12 million parents in the United States currently are raising kids on their own. When single parents face a devastating illness such as cancer, everyday needs like cleaning and cooking can become a struggle. Jody Farley-Berens saw the need firsthand, when her childhood friend faced that situation. ``Making ends meet is insurmountable,'' said Farley-Berens. ``There are so many doctors' appointments, copays, surgeries, prescriptions. And then the inability to work -- any savings that there may have been is gone very quickly.''. She did all she could to help. After her friend passed away, Farley-Berens helped start a nonprofit dedicated to assisting others in similar circumstances. Since 2006, Singleton Moms has provided practical, financial and emotional support to more than 300 parents in the Phoenix area. Do you know a hero ? Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015. Tiffany Montgomery, 48, was a newly single mom when she was diagnosed with stage-4 breast cancer. Farley-Berens' group pitched in to help, so Montgomery could spend more time with her daughter Ezri, now 10. ``When you can't really do much and you're looking at the dirt on the floor, it's one more level of stress,'' she said. ``You have these people that come in, that don't know you, and `You're going to help me with cleaning my house ?'''. ``Singleton Moms has actually changed my whole outlook. They care about you, and they're demonstrating their love through their actions.''. I sat down with Farley-Berens to ask her about her work. Below is an edited version of our conversation. CNN : Tell me about the woman who inspired your work. Farley-Berens : I grew up with a girl named Michelle Singleton who was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 30. She was a single mother of four children and I was a young mom with two kids. And it was scary. You just want to be there to watch them grow up. Paying the bills, cleaning her home, making dinner for her kids -- all of that became a real struggle. I wanted to make things as easy as possible for her. So when I would go to the store, I'd grab an extra Tide and extra toilet paper. When I would make my meals for my family, I would double it and bring a meal over to her house. Once I helped with an electric bill. I just tried to do those little things that I hoped would relieve her of some stress. About six months after she passed, we got to thinking she couldn't have been the only one. There were other people like her that needed help. And that's how Singleton Moms was born. CNN : I'd imagine that many people haven't thought about the struggles of being a single parent with cancer. How are you able to help ?. Farley-Berens : We focus on day-to-day support -- financial assistance, housecleaning, prepared meals, supplies for the home, kids' events. It's that old-fashioned mentality of neighbors helping neighbors. Who doesn't like a clean house that they didn't have to clean themselves ? We have a team of volunteers that have all been background-checked and they sweep, mop, clean the bathrooms. We even have a couple of volunteers who go way above and beyond and will do laundry and fold clothes. And so, our parents can come home from chemo, sit on the couch and read a book with their child without having to worry about, ``Ugh, the bathroom needs to be cleaned.'' It's just to allow them to focus on what's important, which is their health and their family. CNN : Is this work hard for you sometimes, on a personal level ?. Farley-Berens : About 80 % of the parents we support are stage 4, which means that battling cancer is their full-time job. They will not go back to work and for the rest of their lives, they'll be in treatment. It's hard. It's a rollercoaster. I've had bouts when a certain mom has passed where I didn't get out of bed for two weeks. And I thought, ``Why am I doing this ?'' But then I come back and remember why. And so, while Michelle is and always will be our inspiration, there are now so many others that are just as inspirational. They're why I keep doing what I do. CNN : We should note that name of the organization is no longer entirely accurate. Farley-Berens : We're not just about moms -- we have dads, too ! Not a lot, but if you are a single parent, you need the support. They tend to even get a little special treatment. Everybody's like, ``Oh, there's a dad here.'' And so they give them lots of hugs and pay a lot of attention to them. CNN : It's such a serious subject, but your group seems to have a very fun vibe. Farley-Berens : We're very social ! Once a month, all of our families come to pick up their supplies. We do crafts with the kids, snacks and have a good time. We like having any event because cancer sucks, and there's not a lot of happy that goes with that. But life does still go on, so it's really important that these families can just de-stress and have fun. No one can understand what they're going through like another single parent with cancer. So giving them the opportunity to meet and support each other is very powerful. Cancer can be so defeating. It's an ugly word and it's a sad word. And so, it's my hope that Singleton Moms can bring joy and say to cancer, ``You can't defeat us. We are still going to be strong and we're going to celebrate life. And you can't take that away from us.''. Want to get involved ? Check out the Singleton Moms website at www.singletonmoms.org / and see how to help.
Miami ( CNN ) Despite the glitz and glamour Miami is known for, the odds for some children growing up there are bleak. Almost one of every three Miami-Dade County residents living in poverty is under 18, according to the Department of Regulatory and Economic Resources. Many schools face high dropout rates, after-school programs are being eliminated and students are failing. Those at-risk children are ones that Chad Bernstein is trying to help through his nonprofit, Guitars Over Guns. ``Music is the most important tool we have in reaching these kids,'' said Bernstein, 30, a professional musician. His program operates in two of Miami's poorest communities, North Miami and Allapattah. It pairs middle-school students with professional musicians, providing free instrument instruction and mentorship. Since 2008, Bernstein's organization has worked with more than 225 students in Miami-Dade County. He says his group has seen more than a 90 % increase in academic performance and school attendance of students in the program. Do you know a hero ? Nominations are open for CNN Heroes 2015. Bernstein has been hooked on playing gigs since he was 16. He's gone on to play and record with such musical greats as Shakira, Pharrell, Jennifer Hudson and Pitbull. See more CNN Heroes. I sat down with Bernstein to learn more about the motivation behind his work. Below is an edited version of our conversation. Marissa Calhoun : You're a pretty cool guy -- some might be surprised to hear that you were once bullied. What did you experience and how did you overcome it ?. Chad Bernstein : When I was a kid, I had ears that stuck out the side of my head and really big green glasses. And I was tall and lanky and definitely looked a little different than other kids. I think part of the thing that really stuck with me was this feeling of wanting to belong to something, because I just didn't feel like I fit in with the other kids. When I started playing music it really gave me a sense of identity, something that I belonged to, something that I was good at, something that people would watch me do and say, ``Oh wow, that's really cool or he's really good at that.'' I think in that way music really gave me an anchor in my social experience. Calhoun : What can students expect when they join your program ?. Bernstein : As a new GOGO student you'll get to try out all the instruments. You'll choose an instrument to learn. You'll be paired with a mentor. And then you'll go throughout that year learning how to play the instrument and music fundamentals and songwriting. And by the end of the year, you'll be performing on stage, recording in a studio and will have a very close relationship with that mentor. Our mentors are amazing musicians that are active in the community playing and performing. And some of these mentors are actually from the neighborhoods and the schools that these kids are at currently. We're not policemen. We're not teachers. We're not parents. We're in a unique position to really talk to these kids about the issues that matter most to them. Calhoun : Why do you focus on middle schoolers ?. Bernstein : It's the time of their life to reach them not only musically, but also as young individuals that are starting to form opinions about who they are and what their world is going to look like. As professional musicians, most of us know what kind of power music has in terms of dealing with the things that are going on in your life. And the reasons that we target the neighborhoods that we have the program in are because these kids are facing the most challenges with being successful in and out of school. A lot of times, these kids only see to the end of their block and back. We like to bring them to studios and also to other places in Miami because we want them to experience something outside of their own neighborhood. We also provide them with opportunities to get tutoring and have social services, making sure that they're really successful in and outside of school. Calhoun : I've heard you play -- you're pretty mean on the trombone. How has that passion translated into your work with these kids ?. Bernstein : I've built my life on how important the feeling I get from playing music is. And I thought that that was the end-all, be-all feeling, that being on stage and performing was the thing for me. Then I saw a kid have that experience through our program, and it changed everything. There's an amazing sense of pride when I see a kid experience that feeling on stage, where they've connected with an audience or they get a round of applause because they've worked really hard and have a great performance. It's an incredible feeling. I was really fortunate to have the opportunities that I did to learn music. And part of me feels very responsible to provide those opportunities for other people, because there were people along the way in my path and my musical journey that helped me. My hopes for the children that we work with are that their vision of the world and their vision of themselves is changed in some way, that they hold themselves to more than other people might, and that they realize there's a whole world out there that they could very much be a part of that isn't necessarily the one right outside their doorstep. I know music has changed my life in a really dramatic way. And I think it's going to change the lives of these students in a really dramatic way. Want to get involved ? Check out the Guitars Over Guns website at www.guitarsoverguns.org and see how to help.
Washington ( CNN ) Until recently, if you sat in church on Sunday mornings, pollsters could predict where you stood on same-sex marriage. What a difference a decade makes. In 2003, when the Massachusetts Supreme Court became the country's first to legalize same-sex marriage, less than 30 % of religiously affiliated Americans supported gays' and lesbians' right to wed.. By 2014, that number had climbed to 47 %, according to a survey conducted by the Public Religion Research Institute. That's more than the 45 % who said they opposed same-sex nuptials. The margin is small but statistically significant, said Robert P. Jones, CEO of PRRI, because of the exceptionally large pool of respondents : 40,000 adult Americans. ( Eight percent refused to answer or said they didn't know their stance on same-sex marriage. ). According to PRRI's poll, there are now more people of faith who favor marriage equality than stand against it, a dramatic turn in one of this country's most divisive debates and a generational shift with the potential to sweep through everything from the wedding industry to the 2016 presidential race. ``There's been a huge swing in the last decade,'' said Jones. ``There are now big, mainstream groups on both sides of the debate.''. If the U.S. Supreme Court has been paying attention, it likely saw this trend coming. Each time the high court has considered a case related to same-sex marriage, the pile of amicus briefs from religious groups supporting gay rights has inched a little taller, and the crowds protesting outside their grand marble steps has gradually grown more diverse. On Tuesday, for example, as the Supreme Court hears oral arguments in Obergefell v. Hodges, a case widely expected to produce a landmark ruling on same-sex marriage, an interfaith coalition of clergy led by the dean of Washington's National Cathedral is planning to march in support of LGBT rights. ``I join with many across the spectrum of American faith communities in my hope that the Court's ruling will permit same-sex marriage in all 50 states,'' the Very Rev. Gary Hall, the cathedral's dean, said in a statement. ``I trust that their judgment will end discrimination against those who seek God's blessing on their marriages.''. Clergy from Hall's religious denomination, the Episcopal Church, have also submitted an amicus brief in support of same-sex marriage. The brief is endorsed by nearly 2,000 faith leaders, including rabbis, Methodist ministers, Lutheran bishops, seminary professors and Congregationalist chaplains. Another brief, submitted by the Anti-Defamation League, is signed by Jewish, Hindu and Presbyterian groups. In a reverse of traditional arguments against gay marriage, some members of these groups say their religious rights will be curtailed if states do not allow them to perform same-sex nuptials. Prominent and powerful religious groups are lined up on the other side as well, including the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Association of Evangelicals, Southern Baptist Convention, Assemblies of God and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also known as the Mormon church. Together, leaders of these faiths represent more than 120 million Americans. But as PRRI's survey shows, there are often differences of opinion between the pulpits and the pews. Despite vocal opposition from the U.S. Catholic Bishops, for example, 60 % of Catholics now favor same-sex marriage. That's a huge increase from 2003, when just 35 % backed gay rights, according to survey conducted at the time by the Pew Research Center. Mainline Protestants -- so-called for their prominence in 20th century American life -- also saw a huge shift in the last decade. While 36 % supported same-sex marriage in 2003, now 62 % do. At a glance, the pro-gay marriage faction is now strikingly diverse, encompassing Buddhists, Catholics, Jews and Hindus. But the pro-traditional marriage crowd is just as motley, bridging black Protestants, Mormons, Muslims and white evangelicals, according to PRRI's survey. Same-sex marriage rights worldwide. Legalized nationwide : Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Iceland, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, South Africa, Sweden. Legalized in certain regions : Brazil, Mexico, United States. Civil unions or domestic partnerships : Andorra, Austria, Brazil, Colombia, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greenland, Hungary, Ireland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Slovenia, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Uruguay and parts of Australia, Mexico, United States and Venezuela. The survey data comes from PRRI's American Values Atlas, conducted between April and December of last year. PRRI is a nonpartisan, nonprofit research group that focuses on faith and American culture. Separate surveys conducted by PRRI and other groups show much of the newfound religious support for same-sex marriage is coming from younger Americans. Seven in 10 Millennials, for example, support same-sex marriage and say that faith groups alienate young adults by being judgemental on sexual ethics. Half of millennial Republicans say gays and lesbians should be allowed to marry, and 43 % of white evangelical millennials agree. Those numbers could put GOP presidential candidates in a tight spot, said Jones, as they try to expand their base and appeal to younger Americans. ``The real challenge for GOP candidates is how can they plant their feet deftly enough not to offend older conservatives in the primaries but still be able to pivot in the general election to a younger generation,'' Jones said. Politicians may pivot on same-sex marriage, but Bible-believing Christians should not -- even if public opinion turns against them, said Denny Burk, a professor at Boyce College, a Southern Baptist school in Louisville, Kentucky. ``For me, the number of people who come to the message is not the main issue. There are periods when the Gospel is popular and periods when it's not. You can't base your evaluation of its truthfulness on its popularity at a given historical moment.''. Still, Burk said he doesn't doubt that more millennials accept same-sex marriage, and he fully expects the Supreme Court to legalize gay weddings countrywide this June when the justices render a decision in Obergefell v. Hodges. But the fight is far from over, Burk said. ``Just like we've seen this decades-long culture war with abortion, we're going to see the same thing with gay marriage.''
( CNN ) As Nepal grapples with an earthquake that has killed more than 3,400 people, Ronen Ziv worries about someone he has never met. His unborn baby is due this week in Kathmandu. He had tickets to travel to Nepal for his child's birth from a surrogate mother, but now he has no choice but to wait in his native Israel for news. ``It's terrifying,'' Ziv said. ``I can tell you I didn't get much sleep.. all my thoughts and all my prayers are for the surrogate mother and the unborn child.''. Nepal is a popular place for Israeli couples to have surrogate children. Ziv's first child, a 15-month-old daughter, was born to a surrogate mother in Nepal. Ziv and his partner, Tom, traveled to Nepal for the birth. They were planning on making the trip once again, but the earthquake forced them to change their plans. Companies that help arrange surrogate pregnancies estimate 25 couples are now in Kathmandu with newborn surrogate children, while 10 to 15 surrogate mothers are due to give birth in the coming weeks. The country is also a popular spot for Israeli travelers. The Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates there are about 600 to 700 Israelis in Nepal. Israel Defense Forces is sending 260 emergency responders to Nepal, including search-and-rescue teams. The group is also bringing almost 100 tons of medical aid supplies. Ziv says his baby is in a breech position, requiring a cesarean section. In the current chaos of Kathmandu, he worries his surrogate mother, Nafisa Shaje, will not get the proper medical attention required for a safe and healthy birth. Ziv would prefer Shaje fly to Israel, where hospitals can provide the needed medical help. But with only days left until the baby is due, Ziv said putting Shaje on a plane might not be possible. ``If anything else happens, it could very quickly go to absolute catastrophe,'' Ziv says. Hospitals in Nepal have been flooded with injured quake victims. Some have been turned away so doctors can tend to the most severely injured. Cila Tamir, Ziv's attorney, has been working with the Ministry of the Interior to try to bring Shaje to Israel. ``She has no place to deliver. No conditions,'' Tamir said. ``Everything is ruined there, and I'm sure that the hospital doesn't function normally because of the casualties and the injuries.''
Seoul ( CNN ) North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is continuing to rule with an iron fist, having ordered the execution of about 15 senior officials so far this year, according to an assessment by South Korean intelligence agents, a lawmaker who attended a closed briefing said. Shin Kyung-min, a lawmaker with the New Politics Alliance for Democracy, told a handful of reporters that he had been given the information by the South Korean National Intelligence Service. CNN can not independently confirm the executions. The nature of the intelligence supporting the National Intelligence Service allegations was also not immediately clear. North Korea is one of the most closed societies in the world. According to Shin, intelligence officials say Kim is ruling in an impromptu manner and does not countenance excuses or any views at variance with his own. He considers those a challenge to his authority, the intelligence officials said, according to Shin. For example, a senior official with Ministry of Forestry was executed for expressing dissatisfaction with the country's forestry program, the lawmaker said. North Korean defectors share their ordeals. The vice chairman of the State Planning Commission was executed because he objected to changing the design of a science and technology hall from a rounded shape to one resembling a flower, the intelligence officials said, according to the lawmaker. And in March, according to the South Korean lawmaker, Kim executed on charges of espionage four members of the Unhasu Orchestra, including the general director, because of a scandal, Shin said. Kim became North Korea's Supreme Commander in December 2011 following the death of his father, Kim Jong Il. According to the National Intelligence Service, he is reported to have executed 17 senior officials in 2012, 10 in 2013 and 41 in 2014. The National Intelligence Service says there is a strong possibility that Kim will visit Russia, but given his nature, there is no way to be sure until the last minute. Why Putin is hosting Kim Jong Un. CNN's KJ Kwon reported from Seoul and Don Melvin wrote this report from London.
( CNN ) Last week, California Gov. Jerry Brown ordered mandatory statewide restrictions on water use for the first time in the state's history. His action was driven by a specific crisis unique to California at the moment -- the severe drought now in its fourth year there -- but it has significance for the whole nation. As it has in the past, California is leading the way in recognizing that population and economic growth has to respect the physical limits imposed by planet Earth. California developed the infrastructure and system of legal rights it uses to distribute water at a time when the population was much smaller than it is today -- and when the climate was in an unusually wet phase, historically speaking. This led to a system that all but encourages heavy water use in dry parts of the state, with little consistency in allocation or pricing and little disincentive to waste. This has never made a lot of sense, but the new measures are the strongest acknowledgment yet that it just isn't tenable today in a serious drought. As for the drought : It won't be the last, and surely won't be the worst to come in the remainder of this century. Brown's measures may be temporary, but we can hope that they'll be a step toward a more permanent reformation of the state's water distribution system -- one that includes large agricultural users, who are not included in the current measures, although they are the dominant consumers of California's water. How the drought affects rest of the nation. What California does now has global significance : Lack of clean fresh water is a serious problem in much of the world. On the Indian subcontinent, where supply can't meet the demands of rapid development, groundwater is being depleted much as it is in California, and is an equally unsustainable practice in both places. And my colleagues at Columbia recently published a study arguing that drought in Syria was one of the causes of the ongoing war there. They also presented strong evidence that the Syrian drought was in part attributable to human-induced climate change -- in itself, another physical constraint the planet places on growth. Our energy systems, like our water systems, are not sustainable. Is the California drought a consequence of climate change ? A recent National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration report for which my colleague Richard Seager was lead author, argued that it isn't ( though the authors acknowledge that global warming makes the drought worse by increasing evaporation from the soil ). California, and southwestern North America, indeed saw worse ``megadroughts'' in the pre-Columbian past, long before any humans burned fossil fuels. At the same time, the latest projections are that the odds of such megadroughts are increasing with warming. So we're left with a complex picture, one typical of many extreme weather events. We know that human-induced climate change is increasing the risk that an event such as this will happen, while at the same time we can't strongly blame climate change for the specific event happening right now. Does it matter whether the drought is climate-change-induced or not ? From a pragmatic public relations perspective, maybe. Extreme weather events make people aware that we are all vulnerable to them, and media coverage can draw attention to the scientific evidence that climate change is increasing the risks. At least in principle, this awareness can help to build the constituency for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I lived in Australia for a year in 2007-08 when the country was well into a drought that lasted about a dozen years -- and that led to water restrictions in nearly all the country's major cities. Though the role of greenhouse gases in that drought wasn't clear either, the hardship nonetheless made Australians much more concerned about climate change than Americans were at the time. Polls showed that the issue played a significant role in the national elections held during my year there, with a climate-denialist government falling to a much more climate-proactive one ( though the pendulum has since swung back ). But being able to blame climate change for a specific extreme weather event shouldn't be the only thing to spur action on reducing greenhouse gases. Whether we're talking about a drought in California, a hurricane on the East Coast, a flood in the Midwest or a tornado outbreak on the Plains, the connection of a single event to climate change is likely to be the subject of legitimate scientific controversy. The reality and seriousness of human-caused global warming, however, isn't. The scientific case that human emissions of greenhouse gases are changing the climate, and that these changes pose serious risks to humans and other species, doesn't rest on single-event attribution, but rather on the statistics of large sets of weather events. That big picture is what should motivate us. And when it comes to our getting better prepared for the degree of climate change that is inevitable, in many cases it matters even less to what extent a given weather event was human-induced vs. natural. California could have had this drought, and worse, without global warming. Similarly, sea level rise is increasing the risk of coastal floods, but cities such as New Orleans, New York and many others were ( and are ) too vulnerable already. Because really extreme events are by definition rare, most places haven't seen the worst nature can deliver, even without climate change, in their recent histories. So our development planning has tended to proceed under the assumption that that worst won't happen, leaving us with infrastructures that aren't properly adapted even to the current climate. Many of the measures we need to take to close that gap -- such as making California's water distribution system less wasteful, or New York's subways more flood-proof -- will also help to prepare us for the new climates to come. They may not be enough, in the long term, but they're a start. We call these ``no-regrets'' measures, because they are good ideas regardless of how rapidly or slowly global warming proceeds. If California can teach the rest of us something about how to design and implement such measures for water, it will be an upside to what otherwise is nothing but a slow-moving disaster.
( CNN ) The last time Frank Jordan spoke with his son, Louis Jordan was fishing on a sailboat a few miles off the South Carolina coast. The next time he spoke with him, more than two months had passed and the younger Jordan was on a German-flagged container ship 200 miles from North Carolina, just rescued from his disabled boat. ``I thought I lost you,'' the relieved father said. Louis Jordan, 37, took his 35-foot sailboat out in late January and hadn't been heard from in 66 days when he was spotted Thursday afternoon by the Houston Express on his ship drifting in the Atlantic Ocean. ``I was utterly thankful and grateful to the people who rescued me, and I was grateful to God that my parents were not going to be worried about me,'' Jordan told CNN. Frank Jordan told CNN's Wolf Blitzer that he had worried about his son, who is an inexperienced sailor, but he held hope because his son had a good boat. And he had the strength to make it. ``He's got very strong constitution and ( is strong ) not only physically, but spiritually,'' Frank Jordan told CNN. ``And he told me on the phone that he was praying the whole time, so I believe that sustained him a great deal.''. The younger Jordan said he took his sailboat out to the Gulf Stream to find some better fishing, when it capsized. He broke his shoulder when the boat flipped. Because of the injury, Jordan couldn't repair the boat's mast, which had snapped. ``Everything I owned got broken -- all my electronics, my GPS devices,'' Jordan said. He was dead in the water. Jordan drifted in the Atlantic, rationing food and water until his shoulder healed. He was able to rig a makeshift mast and sail, Jordan said, but he could make little headway against the currents. ``It took so long,'' he said. ``It moved so slowly.''. The boat capsized two more times before he was rescued, according to Jordan. After his food and water ran out, it became an issue of survival. Collecting fresh water was a nightmare for Jordan. The weather wouldn't cooperate. ``I had tried to collect ( rain ) water.. but every time the waves would splash into the boat,'' Jordan said. ``The waves would put saltwater into my freshwater and it tasted bad. ``Finally the conditions were right. I filled up my water tank, which is 25 gallons. I filled up a bucket.''. Then there was the issue of food. The fish weren't cooperating, but after a while Jordan learned that they were attracted to his laundry that he would put out to sea for a rinse. The fish would swim in and out of his clothes and he could easily scoop them up with a hand net, he said. Jodran came ashore Thursday evening. CNN affiliate WAVY in Norfolk, Virginia, reported that he was able to walk from the helicopter into Sentara Norfolk General Hospital at about 7:30 p.m. Jordan was reported missing January 29, a few days after his last contact with his father. Two months of concern poured out in a phone call with his son's rescuers. Frank Jordan thanked the captain of the Houston Express. ``You're a good man, I swear. You did what you are supposed to do, and I sure do appreciate it,'' he says. ``And I know my son appreciates it.''. CNN's Chandler Friedman contributed to this report.
( CNN ) In 1944, 16-year-old Yong Soo Lee of Taegu, Korea, was lured by a friend of hers to meet with an older Japanese man. The man took the two of them, and three other teenage girls, by train, then ship, to Taiwan. There, the girls were forced into sexual slavery, serving four to five Japanese soldiers every day for a year. Lee suffered beatings and torture, was infected with a venereal disease, was fed paltry amounts of food, faced temperatures so cold that ice formed on her body, and was never allowed outside. Only the end of World War II brought her relief. Lee is just one example of the over 200,000 women from Korea, China, the Philippines, Indonesia, and other Asian nations, who were kidnapped and sexually enslaved by the Japanese Imperial Army during World War II. These so-called ``comfort women'' suffered unimaginable physical, emotional, and psychological trauma. When Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe addresses a Joint Meeting of Congress on Wednesday, he has an opportunity to do right by these women, and issue an unequivocal and irrefutable apology -- something that carries the weight of his government. In 2007, in the very same chamber the prime minister will be issuing his address, the House of Representatives sent a profound message to the Japanese government by unanimously passing House Resolution 121, which I authored. The resolution called on the Japanese government to formally acknowledge, apologize, and accept historical responsibility in a clear and unequivocal manner for its Imperial Armed Forces' coercion of young women into sexual slavery ; publicly refute any claims that the sexual enslavement and trafficking of the ``comfort women'' never occurred ; and educate current and future generations about this horrible crime. We are still waiting for their government to comply. In 2006, during his first term, Prime Minister Abe unleashed an international firestorm of criticism when he stated that there was no evidence of Japanese coercion and complicity in setting up and running the ``comfort women'' system. And during his second term, Abe and his right-wing allies have continued to question history -- even trying to dilute and rewrite it. Last year, I, along with 17 of my House colleagues, wrote to the Japanese Ambassador to the United States, calling the timing and contents of the Japanese government report on the 1993 Kono statement : regrettable, unfortunate, unacceptable, and destabilizing. Last year, meanwhile, the Abe administration tried ( and failed ) to get the United Nations to partially retract their authoritative 1996 report, which called on Japan to apologize to the victims and pay reparations to survivors who had been forced into sex slavery. Most notably, earlier this year, the Japanese government tried unsuccessfully to change passages in U.S. history textbooks about the ``comfort women.''. Some say that Japan has already apologized enough and it's time to move on. To those people I say, in light of these continued attempts to rewrite history, for every step forward the Japanese government takes toward peace and reconciliation, it takes two steps back. As someone who was put into an internment camp as an infant, I know firsthand that governments must not be ignorant of their pasts. In 1942, during World War II, my government put aside the constitutional rights of Japanese Americans and systematically incarcerated 120,000 of us. We were U.S. citizens, but merely because of our ancestry, the government treated us like the enemy. Decades later, we, the Japanese American community, fought for an apology from our government. In 1988, Congress passed, and President Ronald Reagan signed into law, the Civil Liberties Act, which was a formal apology to United States citizens of Japanese ancestry who were unjustly put into internment camps during World War II. Our government made a mistake, but they apologized for it, and healed many wounds as a result. Japan must now do the same. It must show the maturity of a democratic country, apologize for its mistake, and thereby gain the trust of her sister Asian nations. The German Chancellor Angela Merkel has urged Prime Minister Abe to face Japan's history. Germany knows something about this. After World War II, Germany engaged in a painful national ``coming to terms with the past'' that ripped open old wounds so that they could properly heal. Time is of the essence. Today, there are fewer than 100 surviving ``comfort women'' across the Asia-Pacific. Each year, this number declines. Ms. Lee is one of 53 remaining Korean survivors. The survivors are dying by the day. They deserve the justice and apology that has been due to them for the past 70 years. The opportunity to speak to a joint meeting of Congress is an honor that is reserved for heads of state of our closest allies. I will be in the House chamber when Prime Minister Abe delivers his address. Ms. Lee will attend as my guest. Both of us hope the Prime Minister will take the privilege of this opportunity and finally, and firmly, apologize, and commit to educating the future generation honestly and humbly. Ms. Lee and her sisters deserve no less.
( CNN ) The marriage apocalypse may be coming. Talk to any millennial and you can envision an America virtually marriage-free, with everyone happily single. I did. And I do. Recently, I talked about marriage with a group of journalism students from my alma mater, Kent State University. They came to me for career advice, which I gave them, but I also picked their brains about politics, religion and marriage. Their views on marriage intrigued me the most.'Cause, guess what ? They don't care what your generation thinks -- they'll get married if and when they want. ``I didn't go to college for four years to be a mom,'' 21-year old Candace Monacelli told me. ``There's no housewife degree. I've worked my butt off for four years to get this degree. You want to use it. You want to be successful. You want to have that happy part of your life as well.''. Jackie Demate, also 21, agreed. ``I would have a very hard time justifying spending $ 20,000 on a wedding when I could go to Europe.''. At first I thought Jackie was kidding. So jokingly, I responded, ``Wow, some people would say, with that attitude, you are undermining the moral foundation of this country !''. Jackie didn't blink. ``But, Europe !'' she exclaimed. ``I'm really looking for a travel buddy. And I don't think you need a wedding ring to prove that you love someone. I see a lot of people get married too soon or stay together and are unhappy because they are afraid to be alone. And I would rather be alone, successful and happy than in a relationship where I'm not happy.. I'm OK being single forever. As long as I'm happy.''. Before you berate Jackie for prioritizing her love of travel over marriage, consider where she's coming from. A culture rich in divorce. In the United States, almost 42 million adults have been married more than once. That's up from 22 million in 1980 and 14 million in 1960. Percentage-wise, that means that among adults who are currently married, roughly a quarter ( 23 % ) have been married before, compared with 13 % in 1960. What a fine example my generation is ! Not. Still, there are no doubt more than a few parents out there wondering where they went wrong. Especially in light of a fascinating Pew Research report on marriage. When asked if society is just as well off if people have priorities other than marriage and children, 50 % of respondents were OK with that. And of that 50 %, 66 % were adults between 18 and 29. Religious leaders are deeply concerned for moral reasons. Economists are concerned for our collective future. Studies show marriage is correlated with economic well-being, though it is not clear whether the causality arrow goes from marriage toward economic benefit or in the other direction. A study sponsored by the conservative American Enterprise Institute says : ``From an obvious standpoint, households with two adults are likelier to have two incomes, improving well-being.'' On the other hand, the study points out, people who have money may be ``more desirable marriage prospects.''. Bingo on that point. The millennials I talked with prefer their partners to be debt-free and riding high. They also don't want to burden a husband or wife with their own debt. ``Right now, I'm 21 years old. And I'm thousands of dollars in debt,'' Emily Crille told me. ``That wasn't something my parents bore. And it's really hard to plan a wedding, or even think about something like that when you owe so much money, you don't have a job, and you don't have a home.''. I felt a certain sense of pride at their sassy attitudes. As a child of divorce I never wanted to get married, either -- until I met my husband at 38. But, when I was in my twenties, waiting to marry the right man and forgoing children put me decidedly and uncomfortably in the minority. I heard the whispers : Is there something wrong with her ? Is she selfish ? Unlovable ?. Perhaps it is selfish to establish a career, travel and have a child on your own. Or, maybe it's exactly right. Scandinavians are just about there. According to USA Today : ``In Norway.. 82 % of couples have their first child out of wedlock. The numbers are similarly high for Sweden and Denmark. While many couples marry after having the first or second child, it's clear marriage in parts of Scandinavia is dying.''. The article also points out that ``Norway ranked first and Sweden second in the United Nations' quality-of-life survey for 2004, which rates per capita income, education levels, health care and life expectancy in measuring a nation's well-being. The USA came in eighth.''. In an effort to understand the joys of ``sambo,'' the term for living together in Scandinavia, my producer reached out to Mikael Anteskog Adler, a 35-year-old man from Stockholm, Sweden. ``To put it short,'' he told us, ``marriage costs money ( party, clothes, rings, honeymoon trip, etc. ) and gives no significant advantages, as there are no economic or legal advantages and no real social pressure to get married, or anyone frowning on premarital sex and cohabitation.''. Wow. Fifty-year-old Anne Lehes, from Gothenburg, Sweden, told my producer, ``I believe that one reason for many Swedes staying single is because this is a secular country, so people think they will become fulfilled by their partner, and inevitably they get disappointed and then they don't think the whole thing is worth it.''. Maybe Christina Hugosson of Uppsala, Sweden, sums it up best : ``The notion that marriage is something that you're pressured into seems horrible to me.. Marriage should be for love, not a matter of expectations, routine and everyday practicalities.''. My Kent State millennials -- true romantics -- would agree wholeheartedly with Hugossan. Emily told me as much, ``Marriage is about love. It's not about planning or timing, and that's what we're all kind of waiting for.''. Marriage is about love, but you have to be good partners, too. And, as they say, sometimes love isn't enough. Which brings me back to that idea of a pending marriage apocalypse. Would it be so terrible if we all remained single ? If I had remained single ? I thought about it. So did my husband. We didn't plan to have children, what was the point ?. In the end, we made a decision based on love and practicality. A commitment would not only prove our love, but also force us to get through the bad times couples are sure to endure. Eleven years later we have no regrets. But, we are not you and yours. Would a society without marriage be just as well off as one filled with ``I dos'' ?. I don't know. But I would love to know if you do.
( CNN ) As ash from Chile's Calbuco Volcano spread east into Argentina, geologists warned of the potential for more activity Friday. Evacuations in the region involved not only people but animals as well. ``There is more seismic activity.. and we think there will be more activity today,'' Helmuth Huerta, a spokesman for Chile's National Geological and Mining Service, told CNN. The volcano has already erupted twice this week, spewing ash to a depth of about 23 1/2 inches ( 60 centimeters ) in some places, according to the Ministry of Interior and Public Safety. New advisories say airborne ash could reach an altitude of 12,000 feet. Calbuco erupted twice in 24 hours, the geological agency said early Thursday. The agency said it was evaluating a spectacular nighttime eruption but indicated it was ``stronger than the first one.''. In Ensenada, houses, trees and even sheep were blanketed gray with ash, CNN's Shasta Darlington reported. People were removing salmon -- a staple of the local economy -- amid fear of contamination from ash and lava. Trucks were used to evacuate farm animals and pets. Authorities issued a red alert for the popular tourist towns of Puerto Montt and Puerto Varas in the south. People were being evacuated to Port Montt on 22 buses and military trucks, the interior ministry said. Officials said that volcanic flows from Calbuco caused rising water levels in the Río Blanco. A 12-mile ( 20-kilometer ) exclusion zone was established around the crater. Military and police forces were helping evacuate more than 4,400 residents, the Interior Ministry said. An additional 2,000 residents of Chamiza were being evacuated as a preventive measure after river levels rose due to volcanic flows. More evacuations were expected in Lago Chapo and Correntoso. The first eruption on Wednesday set off a bit of a panic in the region. ``At the beginning, it was small, and later, the cloud grew. And later, there was a huge cloud over you and true terror starts,'' a Puerto Montt resident said. Another person said : ``It was impressive to see an enormous mushroom cloud, with the immense force of the volcano, and to see the ashes. At that point, there was a lot of panic, lots of chaos, traffic jams, people going to supermarkets, everyone looking for water, trying to take out money from the ATMs.''. Magma expanse under Yellowstone supervolcano more vast than thought. The eruption is a first for many in the region. The last major eruption was 1962. There was a minor eruption in 1972. Calbuco also belched out a bit of gas and smoke in 1996. Alejandro Verges, regional director of the Interior Ministry, said that officials are concerned there might be a third eruption. ``The situation is relatively calm right now, although people are understandably anxious about what could happen tonight,'' he said.
( CNN ) Anthony Sideri hit rock bottom while wrapped in a dirty blanket on the floor of a jail infirmary bathroom in Middleton, Massachusetts. He was 25, shivering, sweating, throwing up and going through the full withdrawals of heroin. He had just robbed a bank after shooting up heroin all day. That was July 22, 2007, the day his life changed forever. It was the last time he used drugs, the first and only time he was arrested, and the first and only time to fully withdrawal from heroin. ``I knew that my whole world was over, and I thought I was going to die because I never had been so sick,'' Sideri said. ``I had nothing to my name, and I didn't know if anyone else in the world even knew I was there.''. Nearly eight years later, Sideri looks back on his drug-using days like it was another person's life. Sideri was your average student in high school playing on the hockey team, occasionally drinking and smoking weed until he began using drugs on a daily basis. He can't pinpoint exactly when it started or how or why, but it got to the point where he was smoking marijuana before, during and after school, and experimenting with mushrooms and acid. ``Anything else that I saw, I would have tried,'' he says now. His grades dropped, he lost his eligibility to play sports, but when he was drunk or high, none of that mattered. ``I didn't have to worry about what anyone thought, I could just go to a fantasy land and not have worries,'' Sideri said. After graduating from high school in 2000, Sideri began abusing Percocet and OxyContin, opium-containing painkillers. As his tolerance to the pills built up, he began snorting the drugs to feel the effects faster. Then he moved on to snorting heroin. ``I wasn't getting the strong effects of OxyContin anymore, and I was already sniffing something else, so it didn't seem like a leap,'' he said. ``It didn't seem like the heroin I grew up knowing about.''. By 2005, he had been snorting heroin daily for two years. Even as he was doing more and more drugs, he was in denial about his addiction since he had a job with his family's wholesale snack supply business and a second job as a nightclub bouncer, worked out at the gym and had his own car and a place to live. ``On the outside, I had it all,'' Sideri said. That all changed the day he stuck out his arm and had someone put in a needle. Once Sideri started shooting up heroin, his life spiraled downward in only four months. He was hiding from his loved ones and his drug problem was obvious to everyone around him. He still thought he could control his drug use and quit on his own. ``I really thought I could stop the next day, but I always had an excuse,'' Sideri said. ``I was closed off from the rest of the world.. I wasn't even a part of it anymore.''. By July 2007, he had no more money to fuel his addiction. Out of ``pure desperation,'' he robbed a bank in Danvers, Massachusetts, with another addict. ``Robbing a bank seemed like a way to get a lot of money fast, which equaled a lot of heroin,'' said Sideri. ``That would hold me over for a long time.. I thought.''. As Sideri describes it, his partner entered the bank and handed the teller a cell phone. Sideri was on the other end, claiming to have a hostage. The men left with the money and were caught after a brief chase. ``Getting caught never even crossed my mind,'' he said. ``I was instead planning what I was going to do after : Get drugs.''. That was the last day he ever used. Sideri spent the next couple of weeks curled up on the floor of a jail cell withdrawing, cold turkey, from his years of heroin abuse. He describes the withdrawals as like ``having food poisoning for three days straight,'' combined with a burning, tingling sensation in his bones. ``I would flex and punch the floor to try to make it go away. I couldn't stop it, and I couldn't sit still,'' he said. ``Boiling hot showers were the only thing that felt better. Burning, burning, burning.''. He was convicted of larceny, conspiracy and threatening to steal from a depository for his part in the robbery. He spent a year in court-ordered rehab and another 22 months in jail. ``Jail was the catapult for me,'' Sideri said. ``It finally made me say, `It's over.'''. Once released in 2010, Sideri vowed to never let drugs influence his life again. He will be celebrating eight years sober this July and has made tremendous strides to repair his life. He is working full time as a salesman for his family's business and is attending school to become a substance abuse counselor. He is married with a 1-year-old daughter. And he completed probation last month. ``I live a life of honesty and integrity, even when no one is looking,'' Sideri said. ``I have a daughter who adores me and thinks I am her hero. And I can be, now.''. It's been a long journey. He spent nearly eight years rebuilding his relationships with his family, paying off debts, fixing his bad credit and rebuilding his reputation in his small town of North Andover. He wants others to know him as the hardworking family man he is now and not judge him by his past. He acknowledges that it's always going to be an uphill battle for others to not to have a preconceived image of him. ``Many people only know about my robbery, addiction and jail time,'' he said. ``They have no idea about who or what I am now.''. Sideri says he hopes ``the ripple effects of being true to myself will eventually drown out the bad.'' He already sees that happening when he Googles his name and the robbery is no longer the first story that comes up. He visits high school groups to help encourage students to not fall down the path he took and to encourage others to get help. ``Anthony was a great kid growing up, but he lost his way,'' said Rick Gorman, executive director of North Andover Youth and Recreation Services. Gorman has known Sideri since he was in middle school, and tried to help him in high school. ``He is a perfect example that addiction doesn't mean the end of the world.''. To those trying to recover from drugs, Sideri offers two pieces of advice :. 1. Tell everybody. ``A lot of families and individuals tend to think or say, `Don't tell anyone,' or `No one has to know.' The first step in recovery is honesty. When you hide any part of your mistakes or indiscretions, you are blocking yourself from being free from it.''. 2. Surround yourself with people who make you want to be a better person. ``If you hang out in a barber shop long enough, you're gon na get a haircut. You have to honestly re-evaluate who you spend time with and remove people who are still using and making other bad choices.''. Sideri has many new goals in life. One is to be an example of what recovery looks like and how an addict can truly change. The bottom line, he says : Recovery and long-term sobriety is possible.
( CNN ) NASA says its Messenger space probe crashed into Mercury on Thursday after running out of fuel, ending a nearly 11-year journey that provided valuable data and thousands of photos. Mission controllers at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory ( APL ) in Laurel, Maryland, confirmed the probe slammed into the surface of Mercury, as anticipated, at 3:26 p.m. EDT, NASA told CNN in an email. NASA earlier said the probe was expected to hit the surface at 8,750 miles per hour and to create an impact crater 52 feet ( 16 meters ) in diameter. The crash wasn't visible from Earth because it occurred on the far side of Mercury. Messenger ( an acronym for MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry, and Ranging ) was launched in 2004 and traveled more than 6 1/2 years before it started circling Mercury on March 18, 2011. It was the first spacecraft to orbit the planet closest to the sun. It traveled about 5 billion miles -- a journey that included 15 trips around the sun. Spacecraft to make death dive into Mercury. The spacecraft was healthy when it crashed, but was out of fuel. When scientists determined there was no way to save it, they held a briefing this month to celebrate the mission's success. ``For the first time in history we now have real knowledge about the planet Mercury that shows it to be a fascinating world as part of our diverse solar system,'' said John Grunsfeld, associate administrator for the Science Mission Directorate at NASA headquarters in Washington. One of the mission's big findings : It sent back data indicating that ice in Mercury's shadowed polar regions, if spread over an area the size of Washington, would be more than two miles thick, NASA said. As the end neared, the probe sent back some final tweets thanking mission managers and counting down its final orbits. The Messenger mission is over, but scientists say they'll be busy for years studying data from the probe. And while the space probe won't be sending back anymore images, you can see Mercury with your own eyes. It's visible in the night sky just before dusk until about the end of May.
( CNN ) It has all the key points you'd expect on a birth certificate -- baby's weight, length and date of birth confirmed with an official insignia. The difference here is the governing authority's stamp : The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. It's one of many official documents relating to matters such as vaccination schedules, fishing methods and rent disputes in the areas now controlled by ISIS. For ISIS sees itself as a government operating under a rule of law, even if the group is most often talked about for its barbaric punishment of anyone who resists or defies its medieval interpretation of that Islamic law. The ISIS documents, some shared with CNN by researcher Aymenn Al-Tamimi, give a window into the bureaucracy of the self-declared caliphate. Last summer, ISIS fighters swept through the Iraqi city of Mosul. Once they took power, leaders wanted to show they could bring stability allowing daily life to resume. So, they quickly reopened the University of Mosul, albeit under a radically altered curriculum. Notices went out that classes would resume on 24 Dhu al-Hijjah 1435 in the Islamic calendar ( or October 18, 2014, in the Western calendar ), about four months after ISIS overran the city. But some subjects would be banned -- democracy and political thought, also hotel management and tourism and archaeology. Families flee ISIS in Iraq. ``The banning of archaeology is not a surprise,'' says Al-Tamimi, who is a Shillman-Ginsburg Fellow at the Middle East Forum at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, in Israel. ``We see that reflected in ISIS destruction of ancient artifacts. ISIS regards pre-Islamic artifacts as relics from the `period of ignorance', jahiliyah. Their main concern with archaeology is that it would become a subject turning to idol worship, which is strictly forbidden in Islam. ``Hotel management and tourism may seem strange as first. But there are no hotels under ISIS. They have all been taken over and shut down, either rented out or become places to house families.''. Mosul University still has the same professors and teachers, Al-Tamimi says. ``But now teachers are subjected to Sharia sessions, to learn what is and what is not acceptable to ISIS. So, they have preserved the prior system but within ISIS Sharia law conditions.''. The ISIS Health Department runs hospitals for anyone feeling ill, not just wounded fighters. It has maternity wards, health clinics, even a mobile vaccination unit. And while an ancient interpretation of religion remains at the heart of rules, there is more nuance than was seen in Afghanistan and areas still controlled by the Taliban. ``This is one thing that distinguishes ISIS from groups like the Taliban, which forbids vaccinations. Polio is a problem in Pakistan because the Taliban believes the vaccines are a forbidden substance. But ISIS is not that primitive,'' says Al-Tamimi. ``This is also reflected in education : The Taliban, forbids all girls' education. But ISIS allows girls to go to school, albeit in a segregated environment.''. However, education for girls is limited to the age of 15. Reporting from areas controlled by ISIS is near impossible but anecdotes of daily life and death do emerge. Al-Tamimi's conclusions on ISIS's governing principles and methods follow similar findings by the Quilliam Foundation, other researchers and social activists. How ISIS makes ( and takes ) money. It is an Islamic principle to care for the environment, so that's one reason that using explosives to catch fish is banned. And a quote from the Quran saying property owners should lessen the burden on renters to earn spiritual rewards is used at the start of a document outlining a policy on rent control. ``A general theme for ISIS is that they try, initially when they seize control, to portray themselves as more just, more fair to the inhabitants than the previous ruler,'' explains Al-Tamimi. ``For example, in Syria, the first thing ISIS did was lower the price of bread. This is as much about winning over the population as it is about religious rulings.''. At times, such as taking up the case of renters, the regime can seem almost benevolent, Al-Tamimi says. ``If someone does complain, especially in Syria, ISIS does actually try to deal with it,'' he says. ``That's why they've been seen by many in Syria as imposing order, especially in areas where multiple parties, rebel factions and the Syrian government were previously in control.''. ISIS control of its territory is absolute -- bus schedules show routes from Raqqa to Mosul and Qaim with no acknowledgment of the Syria-Iraq border, just the new provinces created by the group for its territory. Detained ISIS members speak from Iraqi jail. And inside that territory, even entertainment is regulated. Foosball can be played, provided there is no gambling and the faces or heads are taken off the figurines to prevent idol worship. A fatwa on entertainment goes on to say that chess, billiards and other ``contemporary games'' do not benefit Muslims but may be played if they do not distract from religious obligations. It reaches that conclusion from the Quran and other religious teachings. That's also part of ISIS strategy, says Al-Tamimi. ``One of ISIS's goals is to present this very religiously learned image, showcasing their knowledge of Islamic jurisprudence to justify to their following that they are the moral authority. It's clear that ISIS and their religious clerics and scholars are extremely familiar with religious texts and use them to convince and persuade ISIS followers, which also makes them impervious to any religion-based counterargument.''
Washington ( CNN ) Supreme Court justices appeared divided Tuesday during historic arguments over the constitutionality of gay marriage, with Justice Anthony Kennedy returning to a familiar role as the court's pivotal vote. Chief Justice John Roberts -- who shocked conservatives with his swing vote to uphold Obamacare -- this time seemed to lean more closely to conservative justices. The arguments unfurled inside a packed courtroom on Tuesday while supporters and opponents of same-sex marriage rallied outside -- with one protester even interrupting the arguments from within. RELATED : How a Cincinnati judge could shape the gay marriage case. Many questions on Tuesday centered around the definition of marriage and whether the decision to authorize or ban gay marriage should be left to voters in individual states or decided by the judicial system. All eyes were on Justice Anthony Kennedy, considered a key vote for challengers to the state bans, who has penned three decisions in favor of gay rights over the years. At the start of arguments he joined other conservatives concerned with the fact that marriage has been defined between a man and a woman for a long time. ``This definition has been with us for millennia,'' he said. ``And it's very difficult for the court to say : `Oh, well, we know better.'''. But later Kennedy pressed John Bursch, a lawyer defending the bans : ``Same sex couples say : `Of course, we understand the nobility and the sacredness of the marriage. We know we can't procreate, but we want the other attributes of it in order to show that we, too, have a dignity that can be fulfilled.'''. Kennedy also said that Bursch's assertion ``that only opposite-sex couples can have a bonding with the child'' was ``just a wrong premise.'' When Bursch said the rate of out-of-wedlock birth has gone up in the country, Kennedy noted that if Bursch were to prevail, it might be difficult for same-sex couples to ``adopt some of these children.''. ``I think,'' Kennedy said, ``the argument cuts quite against you.''. He also brought up the fact that marriage ``bestows dignity.'' ``These parties say they want to have that same ennoblement,'' he said. Chief Justice John Roberts was also concerned with the traditional definition of marriage. He said this to Mary L. Bonauto, an attorney representing the challengers : ``You're not seeking to join the institution, you're seeking to change what the institution is.''. He expressed concern about closing off the debate currently going on in the states. ``I mean, closing of debate can close minds, and it will have a consequence on how this new institution is accepted.''. ``People feel very differently about something if they have a chance to vote on it, than if it's imposed on them by the courts,'' he said. Conservative Justice Antonin Scalia and Justice Samuel Alito were sharply critical in their questioning of Bonauto. Scalia said that the issue is not whether there should be same-sex marriage, ``but who should decide the point.''. Alito brought up how long marriage has been considered between a man and a woman and cast doubt that such a definition was meant to demean same-sex couples. Justice Sonia Sotomayor and other liberals seemed supportive of the challengers. When Bursch said that the issue should not be decided by the courts, Sotomayor pushed back. ``I suspect even with us giving gays rights to marry that there's some gay people who will choose not to.. Just as there are some heterosexual couples who choose not to marry. So we're not taking anybody's liberty away.''. Steve Vladeck, a constitutional law professor at American University and CNN analyst, said Tuesday's session revealed few surprises to close observers of the court who expected Kennedy and Roberts would be the swing votes on this case. RELATED : John Roberts' big moment : Will he anger conservatives again ?. ``We heard both of them in the arguments today showing support for both sides of the argument, showing skepticism for both sides of the argument,'' Vladeck said. ``I think the headline here is it's about what we expected. It's going to be close, it's going to be divisive and it's going to come down to Kennedy and Roberts.''. Vladeck also cautioned against reading too much into the justices' questioning and comments during the oral arguments, which account for just a few hours in the multi-month process of deciding such an consequential case. The emotion of the case also flooded into the courtroom, as one protester seated inside began shouted and screaming in the middle of the arguments. ``If you support gay marriage you will burn in hell,'' the protester shouted before police quickly detained the man and dragged him out of the courtroom while he continued to scream. RELATED : Meet the lawyers who will argue the gay marriage case. ``Rather refreshing actually,'' conservative Justice Antonin Scalia quipped as the man was dragged out to laughter in the courtroom. Lawyers with the pro-gay marriage organization Lambda Legal, which represented two of the cases wrapped into the Supreme Court case ``an awe-inspiring and singular moment in the march towards justice.''. ``It was incredibly moving to gather in the Supreme Court chamber with their parents and all 30 plaintiffs in these historic cases. Mary and Doug were fantastic, making a compelling and to my mind irrefutable case on their behalf,'' Lambda Legal's Alphonse Gerhardstein said of the lawyers who argued in favor of same-sex marriage before the court on Tuesday. U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, who represented the Obama administration's views, also presented arguments in favor of same-sex marriage, focusing on equal protection under the 14th amendment and likening bans on same-sex marriage to handing second-class status to gay Americans. ``I don't know why we would repeat history,'' he said.
( CNN ) Yemeni officials said Saudi airstrikes targeting a military base on Tuesday hit a nearby school, injuring at least a half dozen students. The information came from two officials with the governor's office in Ibb province, where the school is located, as well as Houthi sources from the rebel group that is fighting for control of the country. A third source, with the Education Ministry in Ibb, said three students had been killed at the Al Bastain School in Maitam, in southwestern Yemen, as a result of an airstrike. The officials from Ibb's governor's office said the Al Hamza military base was targeted because Houthis have been sending reinforcements from Ibb to nearby provinces. There were no casualties on the base, the officials said, but it was heavily damaged. The school, which is about 500 meters ( one-third of a mile ) from the base, was not the main target, the officials said. Schoolchildren were heading to their lunch break when the attacks took place, the officials said. The incident was another example of what has become evident in recent days : The chaos in Yemen, now the scene of some of the most chaotic fighting in the Middle East, has left civilians -- noncombatants, both locals and foreigners -- caught in the crossfire. Those trying to escape the violence, either by leaving their homes or by leaving the country altogether, have been flung into a vortex of fear, fatigue, flight and death. Explosions shattered windows in Sanaa, the country's capital. The fighting has killed hundreds of people in less than two weeks. At least 74 children are known to have been killed and 44 children maimed since the fighting began on March 26, UNICEF said Monday in a statement. That did not include the children reportedly killed Tuesday in Maitam. Separately, Saudi airstrikes wiped out about a fifth of the armored vehicles recently captured by southern separatists opposing the Houthis near Aden, according to a senior official in the separatist movement. The official expressed frustration about the lack of coordination between the Saudi military and friendly forces in the region, including the anti-Houthi southern separatists. ( The Houthis are also sometimes referred to as southern separatists ). ``The Saudis have no one on the ground in Aden,'' he said, calling for the military to work out a means of coordination. ``There is very little coordination.''. The group had recently captured about 100 pieces of mixed armor. Among the captured weaponry, the official said, were tanks, armored personnel carriers, and some large artillery. About 20 pieces were destroyed in the Saudi attack that took place near an old oil refinery. Over the weekend, a Saudi-led coalition smashed parts of Yemen's Defense Ministry Central Command in the capital, senior Yemeni officials said. Despite the rain of bombs, the Houthis still control Sanaa. But the airstrikes have destroyed much of the city's infrastructure. The electricity has gone out on 16 million Yemenis living in Houthi-held areas, the Yemeni officials said. Many fear they will lose access to clean water as well. Yemenis and foreigners are scrambling to leave. Passengers carrying duffel bags and plastic sacks stuffed with clothes were seen boarding an Air India flight as they hastened to leave the capital. Some of them sprinted to the plane. This was a flight that no one wanted to miss. Many were not newcomers to Yemen. Damodar Thakur, a professor at Sanaa University, had lived in the capital for 34 years. ``I never felt like a foreigner,'' he said. He was exhausted by the shelling. ``At night, my goodness !'' he said. ``Gunshots being fired every minute. Sometimes the sky full of sparkling lights. Some women crying, children terrified. Really bad.''. Over the last few days, India has evacuated 2,500 people from Yemen, said Vijay Kumar Singh, the Indian deputy foreign minister overseeing the evacuation. The flights are going to Djibouti, a small African nation about 430 kilometers ( 265 miles ) away. Some evacuees are fleeing on boats from port cities such as Aden. ``More cars in the streets in #Aden. Scared families rushing away in cars with smashed windows & suitcases & mattresses on the roof,'' tweeted Robert Mardini, head of operations for the Middle East for the International Committee of the Red Cross. Why is Saudi Arabia bombing Yemen ?. Houthi rebels control Sanaa, including the airport. But because of the airstrike campaign, the Saudis to some extent control air access, so getting people out requires coordination. The Saudi air force gave Air India a four-hour window to go to and from Sanaa and a specific travel route for a safe landing. As the Air India plane approached the city, the crew could see the scars of the fighting. There were no cars on the roads. Dozens of buildings were destroyed. At the airport, the landing strips and airport terminal were untouched by Saudi bombs, but buildings on the outskirts of the airport and planes along the airstrip had been blown to bits. Loading of the passengers was swift. They approached the planes carrying boarding passes -- a touch of normalcy in an otherwise abnormal event. They didn't pay for the flight, but they had to purchase exit visas from the Houthis. Children sat on their parents' laps to maximize the number of people on the plane. Some passengers fell asleep as soon as they took their seats before takeoff. Everyone seemed to carry the weight of war, especially nurses who had tended the wounded. From Djibouti, the evacuees will most likely disperse to their home nations. ``Now I can only pray for Yemen and those we left behind,'' Thakur said. Who's joining Saudi Arabia's fight against the Houthis ?. Yemen has descended into chaos in the weeks since Houthi rebels, Shiites who complain of being marginalized in the majority Sunni country, forced President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power. The Houthis put Hadi under house arrest when they overran Sanaa in January. But Hadi escaped in February, fled to Aden and declared himself still President. Houthis and their allies, including those loyal to Hadi's predecessor, then fought Hadi's forces in the Aden area. Hadi fled Aden in late March, ultimately for Saudi Arabia, when the rebels and their military allies advanced on the city. The conflict prompted Saudi Arabia, a predominantly Sunni nation and Yemen's neighbor to the north, to intervene with force along with other Arab nations. The Houthis are allied with Iran, Saudi Arabia's bitter rival across the Persian Gulf, and the Saudis do not want an Iranian proxy in power on their border. At his daily briefing on Tuesday, Saudi Brig. Gen. Ahmed Asiri told reporters that the ties between the rebels and Iran were clear. He accused Iran of training Yemeni youths to use military aircraft and weapons. After the Houthis seized Sanaa, he said, ``there were 14 flights a week coming from Iran carrying weapons and ammunition for the Houthi militia.''. The U.S. role in backing the Saudis has grown since the bombing campaign began two weeks ago. ``We have expedited weapons deliveries, we have increased our intelligence sharing, and we have established a joint coordination planning cell in the Saudi operation center,'' Deputy Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said. In addition, the United States has promised to resupply the Saudi weapons stocks used in the last two weeks. U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter ``emphasized the importance of limiting civilian casualties when conducting airstrikes'' when he spoke with Saudi Defense Minister Prince Mohammed bin Salman on Monday, the Pentagon said. What about sharing intelligence when it comes to identifying targets ?. That's a sensitive issue, given the rebels' ties to Iran and concerns about civilian casualties. Guidance from U.S. Central Command stops short of allowing the United States to tell the Saudis what targets to bomb, according to two U.S. defense officials who confirmed details of the guidance to CNN, but declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter. The guidance allows the United States to review targets the Saudis have selected, the officials said, and advise them if there are civilian areas nearby or other ``no go'' spots such as mosques and hospitals. CNN's Samira Said, Joe Sheffer and Barbara Starr contributed to this report.
Catania, Sicily ( CNN ) We are at the beginning of a massive and mounting crisis with no solution in sight. Perhaps that's incorrect. The migrant crisis that has suddenly drawn hundreds of journalists to Sicily has been brewing for years, but in the past 10 days, with as many as 1,600 deaths in the Mediterranean, suddenly minds are focused -- for now. Almost exactly four years ago, in Libya, I caught, perhaps, a glimpse of what was to come. It was late at night in the besieged city of Misrata. Hundreds of African migrants were caught between the Libyan civil war ( back then some optimistically called it a ``revolution'' ) and the deep blue sea. They had come to Misrata from Ghana, Nigeria and elsewhere, hoping to board rickety boats to cross the sea to Europe. They had been pinned down under sporadic shelling from government forces, but weren't welcome by the rebels who controlled the city. They appealed to us to help them escape. We could do nothing, but they may have eventually found their way out when the fighting subsided. The fall of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's regime, which we reporters covered so avidly, was followed by chaos, which we in the news media largely neglected, focused as we journalists were on the next catastrophe, the Syrian civil war. In that chaos, the business of human trafficking has boomed. And now that boom in human misery is coming in waves to the shores of Italy. The focus today is on those lost at sea. Aware of the tragedy underway, however, Italians are alarmed at the prospect that this year alone as many as a million migrants could arrive in Europe, according to one European Union official. That is certainly the case in the Sicilian port of Catania, where many migrants arrive. The city's mayor, Enzo Bianco, insists city residents bear no ill will toward the migrants, but says Catania, and Sicily can not absorb the ever-growing numbers. The rest of Europe must help carry the burden. ``If something serious isn't done,'' he warns, ``dramas like these will be repeated. This problem will not be resolved by hiding our heads in the sand.''. Increasingly, some Italians are losing their patience. Two northern regions, Veneto and Valle d'Aosta, have declared they will no longer accept new migrants. The rightist Lega Nord has made opposition to new migrants a pillar of its party program. Others, however, insist Italy must keep its doors open. In Catania port, I spoke with Grazia Giurato, who had joined a small protest in solidarity with the migrants. ``Many years ago, our grandparents emigrated,'' she recalled. ``Let's keep that in mind.''. Indeed, in tougher times, millions of impoverished Italians left their homeland to settle in the Americas and Australia. They, too, like the migrants from Africa and the Middle East, were fleeing grinding poverty and war. And they, too, experienced the kind of prejudice and resentment in lands their descendants now proudly call home. That's the long view, perhaps. But now, today, Italians are grappling to deal with the consequences of an array of old and new ills, ranging from failing states and failing economies to endemic corruption, hopeless poverty, oppression and injustice that no one state or group of states can solve without a gargantuan, expensive and politically daunting effort. And while this crisis has been brewing for years, it is now truly upon us.
Lampedusa, Italy ( CNN ) The cramped galley of the ship is filled with the smell of fresh garlic frying in olive oil. Gaetano Cortese, a tall, thin, sunburned 27-year veteran of Italy's Guardia di Finanza ( Finance Police ) is waxing eloquent on his favorite subject : food. ``We picked it this morning from the hills of Lampedusa,'' he declares with a flourish, waving thin sprigs of wild asparagus under my nose. He demonstrates how you must break it apart with your fingers, bit by bit, until you get to the hard part, which you keep aside to boil down in water for the pasta sauce he is preparing with his shipmate, Enzo Idone. Cooking, however, may be a positive distraction from dark memories. How I was smuggled into Europe -- and why it was worth it. We boarded the Finance Police's ship, the Calabrese, in Lampedusa harbor earlier in the evening. The Calabrese regularly patrols the Mediterranean off Lampedusa, which is Italy's southernmost territory and just 70 miles, or just over 110 kilometers, from the Tunisian coast. In recent years, it has been the first point of entry to Europe for tens of thousands of migrants from Africa and the Middle East. A few years ago, the Calabrese was on the look out for ``contrabandisti,'' smugglers trafficking in cigarettes and drugs. But in recent years, its 12-man crew has joined Italy's effort to rescue migrants coming from Africa and the Middle East. We spend seven hours on board the ship, but nothing much happens. We see some Italian fishing boats the crew knew by sight. Shortly after sunset, the Calabrese's captain, Gianluca Busonera, begins calling out quick orders to his men as we approach a small boat. The easy-going crew seem to tense up. One man turns on a bright spotlight and focuses the beam on the boat, while another with powerful binoculars read out the name on the back. Busonera peers intently at the boat, which appears to be a fishing vessel, then shrugs. ``It's fine,'' he tells me. ``If it were low in the water, we'd know it was full of people, but this boat is riding high.''. He waves to the Tunisian boat, where an older man in a jacket waves back. Busonera gives him a thumbs up, and steers the ship to the right. It's a routine evening for the Calabrese, and that is just fine with the crew. They've seen enough troubles in their time to appreciate an uneventful day's work. Back in the galley, I ask Cortese about his worst experience while serving at sea with the Guardia di Finanza. He and most of his shipmates took part in the rescue effort on October 3, 2013, after a ship with hundreds of migrants had gone down off Lampedusa. More than 350 people died in that disaster. The crew of the Calabrese was able to rescue four of the survivors. Cortese's cheery demeanor suddenly becomes serious. ``I still remember pulling out of the water, with our hands, a young, pregnant woman who had just died,'' he recalls. ``There were children,'' adds his crewmate, Idone, shaking his head. ``We recovered the bodies of children. It was a bad situation. I remember the body of a boy we recovered. We put him in a body bag. His head was in this hand,'' he said waving his hand as if he had just picked up the lifeless body. Why migrants are risking their lives to reach Italy. Cortese and Idone stress that as fathers, there is nothing worse than having to see the bodies of dead children. ``At the moment,'' recalls Cortese, ``we were too busy to think about it, but when we go home, before going to sleep, it comes back to us.'' He emphasizes that he and his shipmates were just doing their duty as professional military men. Out in the Mediterranean, with no land in sight, you realize just how vast it is. And although it's been warm on land in Sicily recently, at night on the water, it's cold and windy. On board the Calabrese, we are warm, well-fed and in good company. The ship is well-maintained and equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, allowing Busonera to plow confidently through the waves in the dark without fear of running into anything. It contrasts starkly with conditions migrants have recounted to us of the rickety boats and unseaworthy rubber dinghies they use to try to cross the Mediterranean. Often they're without food, water or shelter, their boat's crew inexperienced and untrained. That's if they have a crew at all. Many migrants have been beaten and robbed of all their possessions before they board. And unless a ship like the Calabrese comes to their rescue, death at sea is a definite possibility.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) Rescue crews and residents in Nepal early Sunday began the desperate search for survivors after a magnitude-7.8 quake near the capital of Kathmandu a day earlier flattened homes, buildings and temples, causing widespread damage across the region and killing more than 1,800 people. Follow the latest coverage of Nepal earthquake. Whole streets and squares in the capital of more than 1 million people were covered in rubble. Stunned residents stared at temples that were once part of their daily lives and now were reduced to nothing. Locals and tourists ferreted through mounds of debris in search of survivors. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. The injured ended up being treated outside overflowing hospitals, where crowds of people gathered looking for relatives. Dozens of bodies were pulled from the historic nine-story Dharahara tower that came crashing down during the quake. At least 17 people were reported killed on Mount Everest, where the quake caused multiple avalanches. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Residents huddled in the cold rain overnight for safety. The death toll of 1,832 is expected to rise as the full extent of the damage is assessed. The loss of life reported so far ``is really based on the information we have from the main cities,'' Lex Kassenberg, Nepal country director for CARE International, told CNN. ``But if you look at the spread of the earthquake a lot of the rural areas have been hit as well. The information we received from the field is that 80 % of the houses in these rural areas have been destroyed.''. The quake was the strongest in the region in more than 80 years. Residents are used to earthquakes in Nepal, and many thought the start of Saturday's quake was a tremor, until the earth kept shaking and buildings crashed down. ``The reports of the devastation are still coming in and the numbers of people killed, injured and affected by this earthquake continue to rise,'' said U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in a statement. ``It is clear that very many lives have been lost.''. An estimated 4.6 million people in the region were exposed to tremors from the Nepal earthquake, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said via Twitter. Thirty out of 75 Nepal districts were affected by the quake. In neighboring Tibet, roads buckled, buildings collapsed and at least 13 people were killed, China's state media reported, citing local authorities. Separately, at least four Chinese citizens in Nepal -- two workers with a Chinese company, a tourist and a mountaineer -- have been killed, state media reported, citing the Chinese Embassy in Kathmandu. Officials in India confirmed at least 34 deaths in three states from the Nepal quake. The quake struck at 11:56 a.m. local time ( 2:11 a.m. ET ) and was centered less than 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu. It occurred at a depth of 9.3 miles, which is considered shallow and more damaging than a deeper quake. It was reported by people in the area as having lasted a long time. One person said he felt as if he were on a ship in rough seas. Kathmandu sits in a valley surrounded by the Himalayas. Siobhan Heanue, a reporter with ABC News Australia, told CNN she was wandering at an ancient temple complex at the moment of the earthquake. Several temples collapsed around her, she said. ``It's not too often you find yourself in a situation where you have to run for your life,'' Heanue said, adding that she sought shelter under the table of a cafe. ``It was utterly terrifying.''. Heanue watched as residents picked through the rubble of a destroyed temple. They found 12 bodies. ``Unfortunately, that search was not fruitful,'' Heanue said. ``There were 12 bodies at least pulled from the rubble in the square. This was just one of several historical temple complexes severely affected by the earthquake.''. The Dharahara tower, the landmark nine-story structure, was packed with people when it collapsed. Heanue said at least 50 bodies were pulled from the ruins of Dharahara. The tower, built in 1832, provided visitors with a panoramic view of the Kathmandu Valley. Are you in Nepal or have loved ones affected ? Please share with us if you are in a safe place. Kanak Masni, a journalist in Kathmandu, told CNN by telephone that this appeared to be ``the most massive earthquake to hit central Nepal since 1934.'' In that quake, which was 8.1 magnitude and centered near Mount Everest, more than 10,000 people were killed. Thomas Nybo, a freelance photographer, was sitting in a coffee shop in Kathmandu's Thamel district. It appeared to be a minor tremor at first but gradually gained intensity, he told CNN. Thousands poured onto the streets of the densely populated tourist hub. ``This region is no stranger to earthquakes,'' he said. ``A lot of people had the same feeling : This is a tremor, it passed. When that wasn't the case, they were in uncharted territory.. It's basically an unwritten book.''. Outside the coffee shop, Nybo said he saw a group of women gather near what had been a six-story building. One woman said children were trapped beneath rubble. ``We ran over and ran around the rubble and couldn't hear anything,'' he said. ``There was no chance that they survived.''. Nearby, another building had come down on an area where locals went to do laundry and collect water, Nybo said. A voice was heard coming from the rubble. ``A group of mainly tourists started gathering rocks, hammers and pickaxes and breaking through a re-enforced concrete wall to reach this guy.. It took about two hours of smashing through wall and cutting rebar with a hacksaw to pull him out alive.''. Two bodies were found near the spot where the man was rescued, Nybo said. Not far away, lay the bodies of three or four women. ``Who knows how many other bodies lie beneath the rubble ?'' he said. The streets of Kathmandu were packed with thousands of locals and tourists who didn't want to go back to their homes or hotels because of recurring aftershocks. Rob Stiles and his wife had just checked into a hotel in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck. ``It felt like it went on forever,'' the California resident said. Witnesses : ``People are panicked, running down to street''. Outside, people ran onto the street, with the temblor knocking some off their feet. A huge section of a brick wall crushed motorcycles and a car. Later, as they walked around the city, an aftershock hit. ``People were screaming and looking around,'' he said. ``There were people clearly shaken, upset, crying.''. Denis McClean, spokesman for the U.N. Office for Disaster Risk Reduction, told CNN that weak building codes in Nepal contributed to the amount of structural damage. ``Building codes in Kathmandu itself have not been well upheld in recent years,'' he said. ``Efforts have been made over the last few years to strengthen these building codes but, unfortunately, this comes too late for the many thousands of buildings that have gone up across the Kathmandu Valley over the last 20 years that did not adhere to the building codes.''. Chitra Thapa, 48, a CNN security guard in Atlanta, said he spoke by telephone with relatives in Kathmandu and Pokhara, a city about 125 miles ( 200 kilometers ) west of the capital. They were fine and were staying on streets. ``Everybody's in shock,'' he said. ``They never felt an earthquake that big.''. Aid agencies expressed concern for the welfare of survivors in the coming days, as overnight temperatures were expected to drop and people were forced to make do without electricity, running water and shelter. The international community must react quickly to save lives -- particularly those of children -- said Devendra Tak, of the aid agency Save the Children. ``With every minute the situation becomes worse,'' he said. Food, clothing and medicine will be urgently required, Tak said. The U.S. government is providing $ 1 million in immediate assistance to Nepal, the U.S. Embassy in Nepal said. American disaster response teams are also on their way to Nepal, the Embassy said via Twitter. ``To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies,'' Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement. ``The United States stands with you during this difficult time. How to help the earthquake victims. At a hospital in the Nepalese capital, people with broken bones and head injuries were lying outside, with doctors administering CPR to at least one of them. Residents with scrapes and lacerations were turned away for those in need of more urgent care. Fast Facts on earthquakes. The U.S. Geological Survey had at first measured the strength at magnitude 7.5 but later upgraded it. A strong aftershock of magnitude 6.6 was recorded a little more than a half-hour afterward, along with nearly three dozen other aftershocks, the USGS reported. The force of the quake was said by people who contacted the USGS to be from ``severe'' to ``violent,'' nearly the highest rating on the intensity scale. Tremors were felt as far as New Delhi, more than 200 miles away in neighboring India. An official said they were felt there at magnitude 5.0. The shaking was rated as ``strong'' to ``severe'' on the USGS ShakeMap. CNN sister network CNN-IBN reported that roads in the area were out. IBN reporter K. Dhiksit looked out his window in Kathmandu and saw the collapsed walls of many buildings. As he watched, an aftershock rattled the street. He heard ``big booming sounds,'' he said, and saw people fleeing into the streets. How are earthquakes measured ?. Photos of caved-in and toppled buildings appeared on social media. India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet, ``We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal.''. Manesh Shrestha reported from Kathmandu. Ray Sanchez wrote and reported from New York. Don Melvin wrote and reported from London. Ben Brumfield wrote and reported from Atlanta. CNN's Ralph Ellis, Harmeet Singh, Sumnima Udas and Brian Walker also contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Erica Kinsman, a former Florida State University student who has accused star football player Jameis Winston of rape, has filed a lawsuit against the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback, her lawyer said Thursday. Kinsman has said Winston raped her in December 2012. A prosecutor decided against bringing criminal charges in the case. In the lawsuit filed Thursday, Kinsman alleges sexual battery, false imprisonment and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Winston has said the sex was consensual. CNN obtained the following statement from Winston's attorney David Cornwell. ``This stunt was expected,'' the statement said. ``Ms. Kinsman's false accusations have already been exposed and rejected six times. This time will be no different. Mr. Winston welcomes the opportunity to clear his name with the truth. Mr. Winston is looking forward to the upcoming -LSB- NFL -RSB- draft. He will not permit this ploy to distract him as he begins the journey of fulfilling his lifelong dream of being a championship quarterback in the National Football League.''. CNN doesn't normally identify the alleged victims of sexual assault ; however, Kinsman revealed her name this year in a documentary about rape on college campuses. FSU hearing clears Winston. Winston led the Florida State Seminoles to a national championship for the 2013 season and won the Heisman, given to the most outstanding collegiate football player. He is expected to be a top pick in the NFL Draft, which begins April 30. ``As for timing, we didn't want to wait until the eve of the draft or after he signed a contract,'' said Kinsman's attorney John Clune. ``As soon as we finished the various motions briefing on the FSU case, we turned our attention to Jameis and got it filed.''. Kinsman also sued the university in January. According to police documents in the rape case, Kinsman said Winston raped her after she had been drinking with friends at a bar in Tallahassee. She said an unknown man gave her a shot glass of liquid before they left the bar. Kinsman also said she did not remember much of what happened next but that she remembered being in a ground-floor apartment, where Winston took off her clothes and had sex with her despite her objections, according to police documents. Kinsman reported the alleged assault to FSU campus police that night. A month later, in January 2013, she told Tallahassee police that Winston was the attacker. Tallahassee's interim police chief at the time, Tom Coe, said the woman ``broke off contact'' with investigators in February 2013 and didn't want to go forward with the case. The woman's family said a detective warned her attorney that Tallahassee is a ``big football town'' and that life could be miserable if she pursued the case. Winston didn't play during the 2012 season but came to Florida State as one of the nation's top quarterback recruits, according to recruiting rankings.
( CNN ) The lawyer for a Baltimore community activist whose arrest was broadcast live on CNN said Thursday morning that his client had been released from jail. As viewers watched, Joseph Kent held his hands up and walked in front of a phalanx of police Tuesday night after a citywide curfew had started. Seconds later, several officers in riot gear rushed out of their line and arrested him, just as a Humvee passed between the camera and the police, making social media churn with questions about what happened to Kent. Attorney Stephen Patrick Beatty confirmed he is representing Kent. He was still trying to get in touch with his client after Kent was released. ``He wanted me to tell people most that he doesn't want violence in his name,'' Beatty told CNN's Don Lemon on Wednesday night. The incident unfolded live on CNN about 40 minutes after the 10 p.m. curfew went into effect and as authorities tried to prevent the kind of rioting -- part of protests over the death of Freddie Gray -- that plagued the city Monday. Kent was being held on a charge of curfew violation, according to the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services. People on Twitter continued to circulate the name of Kent, a young activist, making #JosephKent and #WhereIsJosephKent hot topics. Investigators made 10 arrests in Baltimore on Tuesday night, city Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said. Seven were for curfew violations, he said. Beatty said he met with Kent on Wednesday afternoon. ``He said he's physically OK, not injured. He's safe in there,'' Beatty said. But even though more than 100 people who had been held at the city's booking center were released earlier in the day, Kent was not one of them. Beatty initially checked on Kent's status, despite not officially representing him. He said Kent was just trying to help with getting people to go home when he was arrested. ``He went out there to try to settle things down because he had seen what happened in this city previously,'' Beatty said. ``And the last thing he wanted was any more violence, and he was trying to stop it.''. Kent once was employed as an intern, through an outside company, at Morgan State University's Entrepreneurial Development and Assistance Center, the school said Wednesday. But Kent is not a student there and, as far as the school can tell, never has been, MSU spokesman Clint Coleman said. A woman who answered the phone at the EDAC said that no one there was available to talk about Kent and that she'd have no further comment. In November, the Baltimore City Paper ran a story about Kent, then 21, and his participation in Baltimore protests over a grand jury's decision not to indict a police officer in the August shooting of teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri. He helped lead protesters who walked through Morgan State's campus and eventually to City Hall on November 25, the newspaper reported. ``Everyone knows me at Morgan already, organizing and making sure everything ( is ) running the correct way and peaceful and everything like that,'' he said, according to the City Paper's article. ``So, everybody already knows I'm going to do things the right way, so when everybody else and community people and civilians and people who joined and saw that the Morgan students were looking up to it, before you knew it, the whole city was on my back and I was just carrying the whole city.''. Complete coverage on the Baltimore protests. CNN's Justin Lear, Evan Perez, Elan Bird and AnneClaire Stapleton contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Pop star Taylor Swift, who has built an intense bond with her fans by sharing personal details of her life, revealed some sobering news Thursday : Her mother has cancer. The singer did not divulge the nature or severity of the cancer, saying ``I'd like to keep the details of her condition and treatment plans private.''. Andrea Swift, 57, who years ago quit her job as a mutual fund marketing executive to raise Swift and Swift's younger brother, Austin, has joined her famous daughter on tour and in several of her videos. In a post on Tumblr, the blogging platform, Swift said that for Christmas last year, she asked her mom to get screened for potential health issues, ``just to ease some worries of mine.'' Her mother felt ``perfectly fine'' but went to the doctor for tests anyway ``just to get me and my brother off her case'' about it. ``The results came in, and I'm saddened to tell you that my mom has been diagnosed with cancer. I'd like to keep the details of her condition and treatment plans private, but she wanted you to know,'' Swift added. #PrayForMamaSwift was a trending hashtag Thursday on Twitter, where Swift's legions of fans offered prayers and messages of support. Within an hour and a half, Swift's tweet about her mom had been retweeted more than 21,000 times. Many fans shared ``there's something in your eyes that says we can beat this,'' a lyric from Swift's 2008 song ``Change.''. Swift also urged her fans to make sure their parents get screened for cancer and other potential health problems. ``She wanted you to know because your parents may be too busy juggling everything they've got going on to go to the doctor, and maybe you reminding them to go get checked for cancer could possibly lead to an early diagnosis and an easier battle..'' she wrote. ``Or peace of mind in knowing that they're healthy and there's nothing to worry about.''. Swift, 25, added that ``usually when things happen to me, I process them and then write music about how I feel, and you hear it much later. This is something my family and I thought you should know about now. ``Thank you for caring about my family so much that she would want me to share this information with you. I hope and pray that you never get news like this.''. Andrea Swift and Swift's father, Scott Kingsley Swift, live in Nashville, Tennessee, in a mansion bought by their daughter in 2011 for $ 2.5 million.
( CNN ) Sarah Brady, who with her husband, James Brady, pushed for stricter gun control laws, including the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, died Friday, her family said. Brady, 73, died of pneumonia, the family said. ``Sarah courageously stepped up after Jim was shot to prevent others from enduring what our family has gone through, and her work has saved countless lives,'' their statement said. James Brady, President Ronald Reagan's press secretary, was shot in the head by John Hinckley Jr. during his attempt to assassinate Reagan in 1981. Brady spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair, advocating against gun violence. He died in August. Sarah Brady was also involved in gun violence prevention for the past 30 years. She was the chairwoman of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence from 2000 until she died. The National Rifle Association said its thoughts and prayers were with the Brady family. ``Although we disagreed on public policy, Sarah Brady was an honorable American who we always respected,'' the gun rights organization said. People we've lost in 2015. On the Brady Campaign's website, she said she got involved in gun control after her young son picked up what she thought was a toy gun on the seat of a friend's pickup. Her son started to wave it around and she took it from him. It was not a toy, she said, and she fumed over what she imagined could have happened. The loaded gun was much like the one used to shoot her husband. ``It just hit me like a ton of bricks,'' she told CNN in 2013. ``So I asked Jim if he felt comfortable with me speaking out, and he said, `Of course.'''. After that, the Bradys made it their business to be gun control activists. Despite budgets that were just a fraction of the gun lobby's, the Bradys and their colleagues helped pass federal and state laws, including Maryland's 1988 ban on cheap handguns known as Saturday night specials, 1993's Brady law requiring background checks on certain kinds of gun purchases and a ban on manufacturing and future sales of some military-style firearms, which lasted from 1994 to 2004. Read Sarah Brady's 2014 op-ed for CNN.com. Former President Bill Clinton, who signed the Brady bill in 1993, and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said in a joint statement Saturday that the Bradys ``were fierce champions of sensible gun legislation.''. Sarah Brady ``transformed tragedy into a courageous campaign, and because of her work and her remarkable life, American families are safer today,'' the Clintons said. Brady Campaign and Center President Dan Gross said in a written statement that few people are responsible for saving as many lives as Sarah and James Brady. ``Our nation has lost a great hero, and I have lost a dear friend,'' he said. ``I am certain that she would want nothing more than to know we are carrying on her and Jim's legacy with the same fiery compassion and dedication that made her so remarkable.''. Sen Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat who helped write the Brady bill, concurred. ``She was strong and forceful, sweet and kind, and someone I considered a friend and patriot for decades,'' he said. ``She was a true hero and will be missed by America.''. James Brady was one of four people wounded in Reagan's shooting outside a Washington hotel. Suffering a head wound, it was erroneously reported at one point that Brady had died. He was, however, left partially paralyzed. Reagan, severely wounded as well, also survived the attack and served two terms as President. Hinckley was found not guilty by reason of insanity in the shooting and has spent the ensuing years in a psychiatric hospital. The Brady bill was fiercely fought over for seven years before Congress approved it and President Bill Clinton signed it into law in 1993. CNN's Kevin Bohn and Thom Patterson contributed to this story.
Baghdad, Iraq ( CNN ) Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, a former top deputy to Saddam Hussein and more recently a key figure in Sunni extremist groups battling the Iraqi government, has been killed in a security operation in that country, Iraqi state-run television reported Friday. Al-Douri was the highest-ranking member of Hussein's regime to evade capture -- the ``King of Clubs'' in a deck of playing cards used by American troops to identify the most-wanted regime officials. He also was a man thought to have led the post-Hussein Sunni extremist group Naqshbandi Army. Military analysis website Globalsecurity.org says the Naqshbandi Army supports ISIS, which has taken over parts of Iraq and Syria. Al-Douri was killed in an operation by Iraqi security forces and Shia militia members in the Hamrin Mountains between Tikrit and Kirkuk, Iraq, Shia militia commander Hadi al-Ameri said. That militia is a predominantly Shiite fighting group that worked with Iraqi troops earlier this month to liberate the Iraqi city of Tikrit from ISIS. The death of al-Douri was also reported by the governor of Salahuddin province, Raid al-Jubouri, who spoke by phone on Iraqi television. Al-Douri's body arrived Friday in Baghdad, where DNA samples were taken to confirm the identity, said the spokesman of another Shiite militia called Hashd Shaabi in an interview with state-run Iraqiya TV. DNA test results could be available in 48 hours, Hashd Shaabi spokesman Yousuf al-Kilabi told the outlet. The U.S. military is aware of the media reports but doesn't have further information to evaluate them, said Col. Patrick Ryder, spokesman for U.S. Central Command. While officials are aware of al-Douri's role in the Hussein regime, Ryder declined to comment about whether the United States or the coalition was targeting any specific individuals. Al-Douri was a military commander and vice chairman of the country's revolutionary command council in Hussein's Sunni-dominated regime -- effectively Hussein's No. 2 man. Hussein's regime fell during a U.S.-led invasion in 2003. The U.S. military had said that after the Iraqi leader's fall, al-Douri helped finance a Sunni insurgency with money he transferred to Syria before the government collapsed. A month before the invasion, al-Douri presided over a military parade in Mosul, an event covered by CNN, and his participation became one of the last times he was seen in public, covered by CNN. Al-Douri saluted troops from the reviewing stand as they marched by. Then, just days before the U.S. invasion, al-Douri addressed an emergency summit of the Organization of the Islamic Conference to discuss ultimately unsuccessful ways to avert the war. Al-Douri accused the United States of aggression and blamed Kuwait for his country's suffering, calling leaders of the neighboring Gulf state ``traitors'' for cooperating with the United States and Israel. That comment prompted the Kuwaiti representative to stand up and protest, to which al-Douri countered, ``Shut up, sit down you small agent -LSB- of the U.S. -RSB-, you monkey !''. Kuwaiti television cut away from the heated exchange and rejoined the conference later. Al-Douri's efforts were all in vain. The United States invaded Iraq on March 19, 2003, ousting Hussein, al-Douri and the entire regime. In subsequent years, several claims asserted that al-Douri was either killed or captured during the war and its aftermath. At the same time, a man claiming to be al-Douri released a number of audio messages over the years taunting Iraqi and U.S. officials. In 2012, a series of videos appeared online purporting to show al-Douri deriding the Shiite-led government that took over Iraq after Hussein's ouster. CNN couldn't independently verify the authenticity of those videos on YouTube or the identity of the man speaking, though he bore a striking resemblance to al-Douri. In the clips, the man who claimed to be al-Douri wore an olive military uniform and sat behind a desk with an Iraqi flag in the background. He derided Iraq's Shiite-dominated government, led by then-Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, as well as what he described as meddling by neighboring Iran. Al-Maliki's Dawa party, says al-Douri, ``has announced Iraq as the Shiite capital.''. At that time, nine years had passed since the invasion and, al-Douri claimed that Iraq was still in peril. ``Everyone can hear the sounds of danger echoing daily and threatening the country,'' he said. The videos were posted on what was the 65th anniversary of the Arab Socialist Baath Party, a political party founded in Syria that later provided the political basis for Hussein's now outlawed Baath Party. CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali reported from Baghdad. CNN's Jason Hanna wrote from Atlanta and Michael Martinez from Los Angeles. CNN's Jamie Crawford contributed from Washington, D.C.
Hong Kong ( CNN ) Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi are two dynamic leaders at the helm of the world's two most populous nations. And one is particularly vocal about making his mark on history. When India successfully placed a spacecraft into orbit around Mars last year, Modi reveled in the moment. ``History has been created today,'' he said. ``We have dared to reach out into the unknown and have achieved the near impossible. ``The success of our space program is a shining symbol of what we are capable of as a nation.''. Soon after the galactic feat, he took to the stage at New York's famous Madison Square Garden and received a welcome so rapturous that Jon Stewart called him ``America's First Modi.''. And all along, Modi has issued his call to ``Make in India,'' encouraging companies all over the world to manufacture their products in India where there is a vast talent pool and low-cost production. While Modi's India is out to put its economy on the fast track, China's economy is slowing after over 25 years of breakneck growth. President Xi is managing the slowdown with efforts to boost domestic spending, while cracking down hard on corruption. And it's been predicted that India could outpace China as the world's fastest growing economy as soon as this year. So is the world's largest democracy primed to overtake the world's biggest single party state as the next economic miracle ?. OPINION : What India can learn from China. Not so fast, says China watcher and India Today correspondent Ananth Krishnan. ``China is still pulling away from India,'' the Beijing-based reporter said. ``If India grows 7.5 % this year and China grows 7.4 %, I think it makes a good headline. But I think people shouldn't get carried away about what it means in terms of a gap between China and India.''. China's economy may be slowing down but India faces a longer list of economic challenges including higher unemployment, chronic inflation and an overwhelming lack of basic infrastructure. ``In terms of education, having access to different resources, and job creation, China has done well. It has progressed far better compared to India,'' said Infosys China CEO Rangarajan R. Vellamore. ``Even though there is free movement across the country ( in India ), the paradox is there are a lot of basic issues related to access to water and basic education.''. In a recent budget, the Modi government announced plans to boost infrastructure spending as well as cut taxes on businesses among other initiatives to spur economic growth. But despite Modi's big pro-business push, India simply can't size up against China's raw economic might. ``After 30 years of dedicated efforts in building China into a manufacturing powerhouse, it would take a long time for India to build that kind of manufacturing capability,'' said Haiyan Wang, Managing Partner of the China India Institute. ``It's not just about lower labor costs. You have to have a complex industry cluster of supply chains. You have to have the knowledge. You have to have the skills. You have to be connected to the international market,'' she said. ``So when you ask if India could compete with China, I don't think that is going to be happening -- not in the next 20 years.''. The Indian elephant may be charging ahead, but the sinewy dragon has the muscle to stay ahead. China has the capacity, the connectivity, and the capital to throw its weight around. And being a single party state with no free elections, Xi can march toward a long-term goal without fretting about the next election. But that's not to say the autocracy has the advantage on all fronts, especially when it comes to winning hearts and minds in the region. ``Even if China is putting money into the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank ( AIIB ) and the Silk Road fund, it is also building airstrips on reclaimed islands on the South China Sea,'' said Krishnan. ``There no question that India's rise is far less threatening than China's rise.''. With the 1962 border dispute still vividly remembered by many in India, the impression of China as a threat stands in the way of further economic integration between the two countries. ``If you look at India's seven northeastern states, which are probably in the most dire need of infrastructure, it's inconceivable for any of those states to allow a Chinese company to come and build roads,'' said Krishnan. So when Modi touches down in Beijing next month for his second meeting with Xi, can both leaders cast aside areas of political tension to get down to business ?. ``As pragmatic as President Xi is, as pragmatic as Prime Minister Modi is, economic integration is going to happen regardless of 100 % trust or not,'' said Haiyan Wang. Eased by the pragmatism of two ambitious leaders, the elephant and the dragon could together leap at the opportunity for a strong economic alliance. ``If these two countries come together, 40 % of the world's people are going to be prosperous,'' said Vellamore. ``If they are able to come together, there can be a new kind of world order in the entire region which is going to benefit all of Asia.''. It's a moment for both leaders to make a lasting mark on history.
Nairobi, Kenya ( CNN ) Kenyan Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday gave the United Nations' refugee agency three months to relocate refugees from the Dadaab camp -- the world's largest -- to Somalia, or ``we shall relocate them ourselves.''. ``The way America changed after 9/11 is the way Kenya will change after Garissa,'' Ruto said in Nyeri, according to a statement from his office. Al-Shabaab gunmen stormed Garissa University College in eastern Kenya this month, killing 147 people. Kenya's government says that attack was masterminded by senior Al-Shabaab leader Mohamed Mohamud, whose ``extensive terrorist network within Kenya'' extends into the sprawling Dadaab complex, according to a Kenyan government document given to CNN. Students wake to Islamist militants' terror. Ruto, who is the second highest-ranking person in Kenya's government behind President Uhuru Kenyatta, said his government has had discussions with United Nations officials about what to do with the camp. On Saturday, a U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees officer said the agency had not received any formal request from Kenya's government about moving Dadaab. The U.N. refugee agency manages the Dadaab complex, having set up the first camps there in late 1991 amid Somalia's civil war. The agency and the governments of both Kenya and Somalia agreed in 2013 on a process for the repatriation of Somali refugees. But that was supposed to be mutually agreed-upon and voluntary, in accordance with the refugees' ``freely expressed wish and their relevant knowledge of the conditions'' where they'd end up, according to the pact. None of those things, it seems, applies now to the move pushed by Ruto on Saturday. It's not clear where he expects the refugees to go, other than somewhere into Somalia and out of Kenya. Any mass move would be a monumental task, disrupting the already difficult lives of more than 600,000 Somalis who call the camp their home. Simply meeting basic needs is a challenge in the vast complex, which has seen devastating droughts, contagious diseases and other travails that have tested its residents and those trying to help. Still, as tough as conditions there are, they are seen as a better alternative to life back in Somalia, where Al-Shabaab is based and has carried out violent attacks for years. Yet the Islamist extremist group hasn't confined its terror to its homeland, as illustrated by the Garissa attack and the 2013 siege of Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall, which ended with at least 67 dead. The Dadaab complex came under government scrutiny after the Westgate Mall attack, too. But just a few weeks later, CNN's Nima Elbagir managed to go from Somalia to the Dadaab refugee camp undetected by taking one of the panya, or ``rat routes,'' just like many others have done, Al-Shabaab sympathizers among them. Such illicit travel along porous borders as well as police officers' willful ignorance of migrants' fake IDs, as acknowledged by then-Interior Minister Ole Lemku, illustrates Kenya's challenge in keeping out threats from Somalia. That's why, in addition to moving the Dadaab camp, Kenya is building of a 435-mile ( 700-kilometer ) wall covering most of the Somali border from Mandera to Kiunga -- a wall that Ruto says has begun to prevent Al-Shabaab elements from getting into Kenya. The deputy president also vowed that any businesses collaborating with the militant group will be shut down. These measures are in addition to Kenyan airstrikes on Al-Shabaab camps in Somalia in the days after the Garissa massacre. ``We must secure this country at whatever cost, even if we lose business with Somalia,'' Ruto said Saturday. ``No politics, no games, no half-measures should apply, as the death of the 147 students must touch all Kenyans.''. CNN's Lillian Leposo reported from Nairobi, and CNN's Greg Botelho reported and wrote this story from Atlanta.
( CNN ) Nobel literature laureate Guenter Grass, best known around the world for his novel ``The Tin Drum,'' has died, his publisher said Monday. He was 87. Grass died in a clinic in the city of Luebeck, where he was taken over the weekend, said Steidl publishing spokeswoman Claudia Glenewinkel. German media are reporting he died of pneumonia. Grass focused in much of his work on learning from the horror of war and genocide by exploring motifs from his childhood city of Danzig, which is now Gdansk, Poland. During the Nazi era, ethnic Poles and Jews were persecuted and deported from the multicultural city, at a time when they faced the possibility of mass murder. ``In his excavation of the past, Günter Grass goes deeper than most and he unearths the intertwined roots of good and evil,'' the Nobel committee wrote, when it awarded him the literature prize in 1999. But Grass, an outspoken public figure, has sparked controversy in the last decade. In 2006, he confessed that at the age of 15, in 1943, he volunteered for military service in Germany's war of aggression and ended up in the notoriously bloody Waffen SS. Grass said he had no excuses for his choices back then, and that, as a teen, he may even have been excited about belonging to the unit, which he saw then as an elite group. A year later, he penned a detailed account in The New Yorker on how he spent his war years up to the death of German dictator Adolf Hitler. Three years ago, Grass drew controversy again, when he published a poem in a German newspaper discouraging Germany from selling more submarines to Israel. In ``What must be said,'' Grass accused Germany of selling weapons to a potential aggressor out of guilt over the Holocaust. Grass said Israel could use nuclear weapons to kill masses of Iranians. German commentators pilloried him as subconsciously anti-Semitic. Israel invoked a visa ban, and then-Interior Minister Eli Yishai declared Grass a ``persona non grata'' in Israel, the Jerusalem Post reported. Grass' novel characters are the forgotten, the downtrodden and the weird, the Nobel committee said. And like Oskar Matzerath, the boy in ``The Tin Drum,'' they often slip into surreal situations. This was a literary innovation, the committee said, which was furthered by other great authors, such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Nadine Gordimer and Salman Rushdie. On Monday, Rushdie tweeted about Grass' death : ``This is very sad. A true giant, inspiration, and friend.''. ``The Tin Drum,'' which was published in 1959, ``breaks the bounds of realism by having as its protagonist and narrator an infernal intelligence in the body of a three-year-old, a monster who overpowers the fellow human beings he approaches with the help of a toy drum,'' the Nobel committee wrote. The committee praised Grass' mastery of the German language and his ability to artfully exploit its possibilities of creating seemingly endless yet graceful sentences. Grass was an icon in contemporary German culture with an unchanging iconic look -- his broad mustache, his eyes gazing over the top of his glasses, a tobacco pipe a constant companion in hand. In his later years, he became known for his continuing critique of human history in the 20th century -- and of current events. As recently as March, Grass criticized the anti-Islam movement PEGIDA, Patriotic Europeans against the Islamization of the West. He used the opportunity fire a jab at government that he said was corrupted by money interests. ``It's not Islam that threatens the Federal Republic ( of Germany ),'' he said in an interview with rp-online. de, ``but political lobbying. Democracy has decayed into fake democracy.''. Grass has also suggested that Germans should be forced to invite refugees from crisis regions to live in their homes as a way of offering more shelter to the world's destitute.
( CNN ) For five decades, Bikram Choudhury built an empire. The signature ``hot yoga'' bearing his name drew throngs of devotees, spawning studios teaching the practice all over the world. He became a spiritual leader and celebrity icon with a long list of famous followers and friends. But now, the Bikram brand is in jeopardy, with some yoga studios dropping his name after the guru was accused of rape or sexual assault by six of his former students. Responding to the allegations for the first time in an exclusive interview with CNN, Choudhury said he wanted to set the record straight. ``I want to show you,'' he said, ``tell the truth to the world, that I never assaulted them.''. Choudhury repeatedly denied sexually assaulting anyone, saying he would never resort to physical aggression to have sex because he has so many offers. ``Women like me. Women love me,'' he said. ``So if I really wanted to involve the women, I don't have to assault the women.''. He said he feels sorry for his accusers, claiming they've been manipulated by lawyers to lie. ``I have nothing against them. I don't think they're bad people. It's not them saying that,'' he said. ``They are influenced by somebody.''. But Choudhury's accusers say he's the one who's been lying. ``This stuff that he's teaching is really good stuff, but he's hurting people and hiding behind this good stuff so people don't believe he's capable of hurting people,'' said Sarah Baughn, a former student who now accuses Choudhury of sexual assault. ``He's got to stop lying behind it. And he's got to stop doing this to people.''. Choudhury is the founder of Bikram's Yoga College of India. He's featured prominently on its website, which details his system of performing 26 unique yoga poses while in a very hot room. With studios heated to 105 degrees, he credits the steamy, sweaty stretches with transforming people's bodies and minds. He said he's guided by a deep calling to help others. Civil lawsuits filed in Los Angeles Superior Court tell the story of a different Bikram Choudhury, describing him as someone who preyed on young women who looked to him for guidance. Besides Baughn's claim of sexual assault, five other women have come forward with civil lawsuits claiming Choudhury raped them. The Los Angeles Police Department, without explanation, declined to pursue criminal charges in the cases. At first, Baughn said, she felt Bikram Yoga would be the answer to her years of back pain and depression. ``It was really quite life-changing for me.. I felt good for the first time in a while,'' she said, describing her first class. Baughn said her father helped her take out a $ 7,000 loan so she could attend Bikram's teacher training. But within the first week, she said, one episode left her feeling uncomfortable. In a meeting in Choudhury's office, she said, the guru seemed to make an advance. ``He said, `What should we do about us ? We need to make this a relationship.. I've known you from a past life.' It was instantly shocking. I felt like my whole system just sort of imploded,'' she said. Then, she said, Choudhury cornered her late one night, making it clear she had to sleep with him in order to advance her career. ``He crawled on top of me and he put his hand on my, inside of my thigh, and the other hand he wrapped around me, and he was holding me there,'' she said. ``He told me that he needed somebody to be with him, to massage him, to brush his hair, to spend time with him, that he was lonely. And he said, `And I need someone to, to have sex with me.'''. Choudhury, she said, claimed she'd never win a yoga competition if he didn't have sex with her. ``I pushed him off of me and I said,' I can do this by myself.' And he said, `No you can't. There's no way.' And I got up and I left the room,'' she said. In another instance, she said Choudhury pinned her against a door and sexually assaulted her when she was left alone with him late one night at a teacher training course. ``I just remember I was terrified. I didn't want to be touched again. When I reached the door, he was there,'' she said. ``He was only in his boxers and a T-shirt. And he pushed himself up against me and held me up against the door,'' she said. ``And he just started kissing all over my chest and my body. And he pushed himself into me very hard.''. Ultimately, Baughn said she was able to open the door and get away. Choudhury said Baughn's claims are false. ``It's not truth. I don't do that. I don't have to,'' he said. He said he makes it a practice to never be alone with any of his students. He repeatedly denied assaulting his accusers or ever having consensual sex with them. But when asked whether he'd had sex with other students, he responded, ``yes and no.''. ``I have no intention to have sex with any of my students or any women,'' said Choudhury, who said he's been married to his wife for more than 30 years. ``Sometimes students, they commit suicide. Lots of students of mine, they commit suicide because I will not have sex with them.''. Bikram claimed these encounters took place before he was married. But when asked for evidence, Bikram's attorney advised him not to give CNN names. Robert Tafoya, Choudhury's attorney, said there are plenty of reasons to doubt the accusers' claims. ``We know for a fact that these claims allegedly occurred years and years and years ago, and nobody ever came forward,'' he said. ``And yet, after this lawyer sends out these kinds of blasts in social media asking people if they've been a victim of Bikram Choudhury, all of a sudden these people come forward and all have very similar claims.''. Carney Shegerian, Baughn's attorney, said that's simply not true. When Baughn started telling her story, he said, others were inspired to speak out. ``When she came forward and went public, it attracted other people, and the other five plaintiffs to also have a modicum of confidence to discuss what had happened to them,'' he said. Baughn said she was inspired by her young daughter to come forward when she did. ``She's 5 now, 5 1/2. But when I looked at my little girl and all I could see was 10 years down the road, or 20 years down the road, and her being just like me, the only thing I could see was her getting raped and assaulted,'' she said. Choudhury vowed to clear his name. But he said the damage has already been done to his family. He cries as he describes how his wife has responded to the allegations against him. ``My wife never look at me anymore,'' he said. ``My children, my wife.. we only die once in our life. I'm dying every day when I get up in the morning.''. The situation, he said, has destroyed his family. ``How can I share my heart, my spirit ? Twenty-four hours a day, I work harder than any other human being. And this is the reward ? I'm a rapist ?'' he said. ``Shame on your culture, Western culture. Shame, shame. Your job ( is ) to go and tell the world the truth.''. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, Dana Ford and Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.
( CNN ) You know the phrase ``dodging a bullet'' ? Forget about it. Probably not going to happen anymore. The U.S. military said this week it has made great progress in its effort to develop a self-steering bullet. In February, the ``smart bullets'' --.50 - caliber projectiles equipped with optical sensors -- passed their most successful round of live-fire tests to date, according to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA. In the tests, an experienced marksman ``repeatedly hit moving and evading targets,'' a DARPA statement said. ``Additionally,'' the statement said, ``a novice shooter using the system for the first time hit a moving target.'' In other words, now you don't even have to be a good shot to hit the mark. The system has been developed by DARPA's Extreme Accuracy Tasked Ordnance program, known as EXACTO. ``True to DARPA's mission, EXACTO has demonstrated what was once thought impossible : the continuous guidance of a small-caliber bullet to target,'' said Jerome Dunn, DARPA program manager. ``This live-fire demonstration from a standard rifle showed that EXACTO is able to hit moving and evading targets with extreme accuracy at sniper ranges unachievable with traditional rounds. Fitting EXACTO's guidance capabilities into a small.50 - caliber size is a major breakthrough and opens the door to what could be possible in future guided projectiles across all calibers,'' Dunn said. Videos supplied by DARPA show the bullets making sharp turns in midair as they pursue their targets. It all conjures up images of a cartoon character frantically fleeing a bullet that follows him wherever he goes. Only, these bullets are traveling at hundreds of miles per hour. And even the Road Runner can't run that fast. DARPA says the smart bullets will also help shooters who are trying, for example, to hit targets in high winds. The goals of the EXACTO program are giving shooters accuracy at greater distances, engaging targets sooner and enhancing the safety of American troops, DARPA said.
( CNN ) In Russia's tightly-managed democracy, where being an opposition politician can seriously damage your health, chances to question the country's leader are rare. President Vladimir Putin cuts an isolated figure, closely guarded behind the walls of the Kremlin, traveling to-and-fro by helicopter or high-speed motorcade. His almost daily appearances on state television often show him in formal meetings with subordinates, or visiting dignitaries. Interaction with ordinary Russians is usually carefully controlled and fleeting. That is why this annual Q&A session -- in which Putin will spend hours fielding questions from the general public on live television -- is such a widely anticipated event which provokes such excitement. It is direct access to the Russian leader, or at least as direct as most Russians will ever get. In recent years, sitting in a shiny studio surrounded by a hand-picked audience of soldiers, doctors, teachers, factory workers and so on, Putin has held forth on subjects from parenting to food prices, to relations with America. Last year he spoke for three hours and 55 minutes. In 2013, it was a record-breaking 4 hours and 47 minutes. Organizers say this year, public interest is especially strong. At one call center in Moscow, where the public are encouraged to pitch their Putin questions, officials say more than 200,000 questions were submitted in the first hour after lines opened. The Kremlin says they will have to sift through well over 1.7 million emails, video messages and texts to decide who gets to ask what on the big day. A few would-be questions released ahead of the event give us a flavor of what's on Russia's mind. One man, who identifies himself as Vitaly from the Leningrad region, asks : ``Vladimir Vladimirovich ( Putin's middle name ), why are prices going up in the shops but wages are staying the same ?''. Sanctions and Russia's deep economic crisis, which saw the value of the Russian currency, the ruble, plunge in value by 50 % against the dollar, is set to be a major a theme. So too is foreign policy. With Moscow at odds with the West over Ukraine, some of the released questions show how concerned ordinary Russians are about their country's place in the world. One unidentified schoolgirl asks : ``Is there a threat to Russia's interests from the United States and Europe ? And will there be a new Iron Curtain ?''. It's not just Russian schoolchildren who want to hear Putin's answer. Critics of the Kremlin, of course, slam this entire event as Russia's imitation of democracy in action. It's hard to imagine a truly critical question, they say, getting aired on national television here. In fact, its best not to look at this event as an opportunity for Russians to question their leader at all. Instead, it is more like a highly produced, highly choreographed chance for their leader to speak to them, and to the world. Sometimes, the Kremlin likes to throw in a nasty surprise, too. Last year saw NSA whistleblower, Edward Snowden, granted asylum in Russia, address Putin by videolink. Who knows who may pop up this time.
( CNN ) Greenpeace activists have climbed aboard a Shell oil rig to protest the company's plans to drill in the Arctic near Alaska. The six protesters used ropes and harnesses Monday to scale the huge platform in the Pacific Ocean, tweeting images of their daunting climb as they went. ``We made it ! We're on Shell's platform. And we're not alone,'' wrote Aliyah Field, an American activist taking part in the protest. ``Everyone can help turn this into a platform for people power !''. The rig, the Polar Pioneer, is on its way to the Arctic via Seattle. The environmental activists caught up with it about 750 miles northwest of Hawaii, Greenpeace said. They plan to occupy the underside of the rig's main deck and say they have enough supplies to stay there for several days. Shell didn't immediately respond to CNN's request for comment late Monday. But company spokeswoman Kelly Op De Weegh told Agence France-Presse that the boarding was illegal and jeopardized the safety of the activists and the crew. Greenpeace is furious over a decision last week by U.S. authorities to lift the suspensions on leases to drill for oil and gas in the Chukchi Sea, which lies between northern Alaska and Russia. Shell and several other oil companies bought exploration leases for the sea in 2008. The U.S. government's decision ``means that in 100 days, Shell could begin drilling in the Alaskan Arctic,'' Greenpeace said. Federal agencies still have to review and approve companies' plans before exploratory drilling can start. Shell's work in the Arctic has suffered some setbacks in the past, including a drilling barge that ran aground off southern Alaska on December 31, 2012. Greenpeace has repeatedly used the occupation of drilling-related vessels to bring attention to its cause. One group of its activists was detained for months by Russian authorities in 2013. In the current episode, the activists pursued the Polar Pioneer, which Shell is leasing from Transocean, as it traveled thousands of miles aboard a transport vessel from Malaysia, Greenpeace said. Besides the American protester Field, the activists come from Australia, Austria, Germany, New Zealand and Sweden. The U.S. Coast Guard wasn't immediately available for comment late Monday on the incident. CNN's Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
Panama City ( CNN ) This was the handshake that shook the Western Hemisphere. President Obama briefly met his Cuban counterpart, Raul Castro, on Friday night at a dinner for the dozens of Latin American leaders convening in Panama City for the Summit of the Americas. This was historic. The two nations have barely been on speaking terms -- officially -- for more than 50 years. The meeting was so important that Bernadette Meehan, National Security Council spokesperson, issued a statement : ``At the Summit of the Americas this evening, President Obama and President Castro greeted each other and shook hands.''. Cuba and the United States had endured a half-century of enmity, the tension worsened by the two nations being only 90 miles apart. Key events of those years include some of the most traumatic in modern U.S. history, such as the Cuban Missile Crisis, the Bay of Pigs and the Mariel boatlift of 1980. But the two leaders have been building up to the historic face-to-face. Obama spoke by phone Wednesday with the Cuban leader before heading to Panama. They met Friday at the dinner and are expected to spend a lot more time together on Saturday when the summit begins in earnest. Obama arrived in Panama late Thursday for the conference, which in years past was tinged with animosity at Cuba's exclusion. Moments after Marine One, Obama's helicopter, touched down in Panama City, Castro's plane landed on the same tarmac. Panamanian television carried both arrivals live. During their phone call Wednesday, Obama and Castro discussed the ongoing process of normalizing relations between the United States and Cuba, according to Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes. He said it ``made sense'' for the two leaders to communicate before their anticipated interactions Friday and Saturday. Those run-ins will represent the highest-level talks between the United States and Cuba since a meeting between then-Vice President Richard Nixon and then-Prime Minister Fidel Castro in 1959. ``We're in new territory here,'' Rhodes said on Friday. ``The reason we're here is that the President strongly believes that an approach that was focused totally on isolation, focused totally on seeking to cut off the Cuban people from the United States of America had failed.''. Obama was expecting a warm welcome from the dozens of countries represented at the conference, after announcing in December he was seeking to engage Havana in talks over reopening embassies and removing barriers to commerce and travel. In Panama, Obama is expected to announce he's removing Cuba from the United States' list of countries that sponsor terrorism, a major advance in building diplomatic ties between the two countries. The State Department delivered its report on the designation to the White House on Wednesday ; Obama said on Thursday a panel of experts was reviewing it before he makes a final determination. The White House isn't ruling out a final decision before Obama leaves Panama late Saturday night. In remarks during a brief stopover in Jamaica on Thursday, Obama strongly hinted he was ready to remove Cuba from the list, which also includes Iran, Sudan and Syria. ``Throughout this process, our emphasis has been on the facts,'' Obama said. ``So we want to make sure that given that this is a powerful tool to isolate those countries that genuinely do support terrorism, that when we make those designations we've got strong evidence that, in fact, that's the case.''. ``As circumstances change, then that list will change as well,'' he said. While some inside Cuba have expressed dissatisfaction at the pace of the diplomatic thaw, U.S. officials say they're pleased at the progress toward re-establishing diplomatic ties, which the White House argues has helped improve relations with other countries in the region. Obama said in Jamaica he ``never foresaw that immediately overnight everything would transform itself.''. The overtures to Cuba have not been universally popular in the United States ; some lawmakers were irate that Obama was seeking to engage what they regard as a corrupt government. Even as Obama landed in Panama the long-standing tensions between pro- and anti-Castro activists was on full display. Dissidents opposed to Castro's regime were violently accosted earlier this week by supporters of the Cuban government. Rhodes said the White House had ``expressed serious concerns'' about the violence and would continue to speak in support of human rights reforms on the island.
( CNN ) The Solar Impulse 2, the experimental plane attempting to fly around the world without using a drop of fuel, has been grounded by the weather in China. What was supposed to be an overnight pit stop in the southwestern city of Chongqing has now stretched into a two-and-a-half week stay. It's an unexpected layover that is testing the patience of the pilots and more than 60 team members, just a quarter of the way along a journey that will cover some 35,000 kilometers ( 21,748 miles ) over five months. ``You can believe that your will can influence the weather,'' says pilot Bertrand Piccard, who comes from a long family line of explorers. But ``then you'll be really disappointed because it doesn't work. ``Or you just know that it's an adventure you do with the forces of nature.''. Piccard, along with Andre Borschberg, a Swiss engineer, are taking turns flying the single-seater aircraft, which took off from Abu Dhabi on March 9 and has successfully flown through Oman, India, and Myanmar. There is much at stake. Their mission, which the pilots say is aimed at proving the power of renewable energy, and inspiring innovation, has been 12 years in the making. In many ways, it has become Piccard and Borschberg's raison d'etre. But so far, the Solar Impulse 2 has been spending a lot of time on the ground. The latest setback came when a Thursday takeoff was canceled, because the cross winds in Nanjing, the plane's destination, were forecast to be too strong around its expected landing time. Because of its weight, at just 2,300 kilograms -- about the same as a large SUV -- the aircraft needs near perfect weather conditions, including cross winds of less than 4 knots, or about 7 kilometers an hour, in order to fly. While the team is used to waiting, they are clearly eager to move on. ``Our boss is the sun,'' says Solar Impulse spokeswoman Claudia Durgnat. Durgnat says there may be a tiny window ahead, with the next possible departure from Chongqing on Tuesday. ``It's not good before, and the days after don't look very clear.''. Even with the delay, Durgnat says, the plane technically isn't behind schedule. That's because the team needs to wait until the end of the month for the northern hemisphere days to get longer, before the plane can venture across the Pacific Ocean to Hawaii. With more than 17,000 solar cells along the tops of its wings and fuselage, the Solar Impulse 2 stores up energy during the day, in order to power the motors that carry it through the night, typically at speeds no faster than a car on a highway. Inside a specially constructed tent at the end of the runway at Chongqing International Airport, a skeleton team of less than a dozen people works to complete the day's tasks. The rest of the crew has been waiting for weeks in Nanjing. Even with the extended stay, no time is wasted. Piccard spends a few hours of the afternoon in the cockpit, training to prepare for the Solar Impulse's crossings over the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean, what the team calls ``the moment of truth.'' The plane will then return to Abu Dhabi, where it had taken off. Nearby, two technicians repair a couple of the flight computers, which display critical information in the cockpit, punching extra holes in their casings so they don't overheat. Meanwhile, Borschberg has returned to Switzerland to rest and get medical treatment for a migraine and a skin condition. The team expects him back in China early next week. Borschberg is still scheduled to fly first leg of the Pacific crossing, which could last up to five days and nights. ``The airplane is ready. The mission control center is ready. We've been waiting for that moment since so long,'' says Piccard. Borschberg and Piccard, who piloted an earlier version of the plane across the U.S. in 2013, are no strangers to adventure. Borschberg is a former fighter pilot, and Piccard was part of the first team to circumnavigate the earth nonstop in a balloon in 1999.
( CNN ) Freddie Gray did not get timely medical care after he was arrested and was not buckled into a seat belt while being transported in a police van, Baltimore police said Friday. Police Commissioner Anthony Batts told reporters there are no excuses for the fact that Gray was not buckled in as he was transported to a police station. Five days after Gray's death and amid ongoing protests, police officials acknowledged mistakes were made during and after his arrest. Gray, who was stopped April 12 after a foot pursuit through several housing complexes, should have received medical attention at the scene of his arrest, said Deputy Police Commissioner Kevin Davis. A witness said the man was yelling and indicated he was having difficulty breathing. Batts told reporters in an afternoon news conference : ``We know our police employees failed to get him medical attention in a timely manner multiple times.''. Investigators are trying to learn more about Gray's condition at each of the three stops the van made on its way to a police station. At the first stop, Gray was placed in leg irons. The driver stopped a second time ``to deal with Mr. Gray and the facts of that interaction are under investigation,'' Davis said. The van stopped one more time to add a second prisoner. Batts told reporters that at the third stop an officer saw Gray on the floor of the van, asking for a medic. The officer and the van driver picked him up and put him on the seat, the commissioner said. When the van arrived at the Western District station, police called for an ambulance, said Davis, who is in charge of the investigation. An attorney for the Gray family said it was positive news, but there is a more important issue. ``It's certainly a step towards acknowledging the truth that the police did not follow their own internal regulations,'' Jason Downs told CNN's ``Erin Burnett OutFront.'' ``What it does not get at is, it does not get at the core of this case and that is why did Mr. Gray need medical attention in the first place ?.. That's the question that still has not been answered.''. The developments came two days after a police union attorney spoke of the possibility that the injuries occurred during a ``rough ride,'' a frequently claimed practice in which police vehicles are deliberately driven in a way that injures suspects. At least two suspects have won court cases against the city after being left paralyzed in such rides over the last decade or so, The Baltimore Sun reported Thursday. Gray died Sunday, one week after Baltimore police arrested him. At some point, he suffered a severe spinal cord injury. His family said his voice box was crushed and his neck snapped before he slipped into a coma and died. Batts said he had been given preliminary results of an autopsy on Gray. The medical examiner's full autopsy may take another 30 to 45 days, Batts said, because toxicology tests still need to be examined and spinal experts may be brought in to assess Gray's injury. Meanwhile, anger over the incident and the police response to it continued to grow ahead of a major rally that organizers vowed would ``shut this city down on Saturday.''. ``The people are demanding immediate arrests, immediate end to the protracted investigation, and immediate end to the stonewalling,'' said Malik Shabazz, president of Black Lawyers for Justice. But he and other officials vowed the protests would be peaceful -- much as they were Thursday night, despite a few scuffles and two detentions. ``No one has come to try and burn Baltimore down,'' another protest organizer, the Rev. Tim Sutton, told reporters. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake thanked those protesters who have demonstrated peacefully. ``Our community is very clear. They demand answers and so do I,'' she said. The mayor said that will take some time, but she had concerns about what happened to Gray. ``I still want to know why the policies and procedures for transport were not followed,'' Rawlings-Blake said. ``I realize there is frustration over this investigation, but I want to be clear : there is a process, but we have to respect that process.''. Batts addressed calls for his resignation after Gray's death by saying he would not step down. Police first encountered Gray as they patrolled an area known for crime and drug activity. When Gray saw them, authorities said, he started running. Gray was arrested after police found what they said was a switchblade on him. An attorney for Gray's family has said the knife was a pocket knife of legal size. One video of Gray's arrest shows officers dragging him to a police van, his legs dangling limply behind him. ``His leg look broke !'' a bystander yells as a witness captures the arrest on a cell phone video. That witness, who only wants to be identified as Kiona, said she knew Gray as a joker and a ladies' man. But that day, he said only one thing to her. ``When I ran up the street and seen him, the first thing I asked him was he OK because I heard him screaming,'' Kiona said. ``He didn't never say yes or no, he just said,' I can't breathe,' and just was yelling.''. Gray's family attorneys and protesters said police didn't have any probable cause to chase him but did so only because he was ``running while black.''. Police union attorney Michael Davey said officers had every right to give chase. ``There is a Supreme Court case that states that if you are in a high-crime area, and you flee from the police unprovoked, the police have the legal ability to pursue you, and that's what they did,'' he said. ``In this type of an incident, you do not need probable cause to arrest. You just need a reasonable suspicion to make the stop.''. Andrew O'Connell, an attorney for the Gray family, said ``police have a lot of questions that need to be answered.''. ``What was the reasonable suspicion ? Why were they arresting our client ?'' he said. ``He had no weapon in his hand. He was committing no crime, and he wasn't hurting anybody. The police had no reasonable suspicion to stop or arrest him,'' the attorney said. The Gray family has not yet seen the preliminary autopsy report, attorney William Murphy said. Downs said the family has commissioned an independent autopsy. While police say five of the six officers involved in the arrest have provided statements to investigators, the department has not released details of what the officers said or how Gray might have suffered the fatal injury. The sixth officer has invoked his right to refuse to answer questions, Batts said. Baltimore protests : 5 questions demonstrators are asking. The Justice Department is investigating whether Gray's civil rights were violated during the arrest. Rawlings-Blake said earlier she ``absolutely'' believes an outside investigation is needed, especially given the history of police misconduct. A wake will be held Sunday for Gray, with a memorial service and funeral following on Monday. CNN's Holly Yan, Carolyn Sung, Ashley Fantz, Kimberly Hutcherson, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Catherine E. Shoichet, Kevin Conlon and Dana Ford contributed to this report.
Beijing ( CNN ) A day after the Chinese government released five young feminists on bail, their families and supporters expressed mixed emotions on the unexpected development. Wei Tingting, Wang Man, Zheng Churan, Li Tingting and Wu Rongrong were freed from the Haidian Detention Center on the outskirts of Beijing late Monday. The five activists on women's rights -- aged from 25 to 32 -- were picked up by police in three different cities just before March 8, the International Women's Day. They had been planning a campaign against sexual harassment on public transportation. ``I'm still speechless and don't know how to react,'' tweeted Li's girlfriend Suan Xiaola to the couple's friends upon hearing the news. ``No tears, no ecstasy.. just wondering what we're going to do next.''. ``I can't hide my happiness for the women but being released on bail is not the end of their ordeal,'' echoed Li's lawyer Yan Xin on Chinese social media. ``Without closing their cases, they still can't live without shackles -- we'll have our work cut out for us.''. Police had recommended last week that prosecutors press charges of ``assembling a crowd to disturb public order,'' which carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison. The women are still considered suspects in an ongoing criminal investigation and may face charges in the future, Wu's lawyer Liang Xiaojun told CNN. They will be under surveillance for a year with their movements and activities restricted, and police can summon them for questioning at any time, Liang added. ``This shouldn't be a moment of celebration,'' he said. ``The arbitrary detention and release of these women really shows the backwardness of China's legal system.''. Under China's household registration system, only Li is considered a Beijing resident. Police sent the other four back to their hometowns, disrupting their work and lives, according to the women's lawyers. Many have called the five members of Women's Rights Action Group trailblazers. Staging their protests through performance art or flash mobs, they highlighted feminist causes ranging from fighting domestic violence, gender equality at work, to more female public bathrooms -- drawing nationwide attention and even state media praise. Their detention had drawn widespread condemnation, including from the United States. ``Each and every one of us has the right to speak out against sexual harassment and the many other injustices that millions of women and girls suffer around the world,'' said John Kerry, the U.S. Secretary of State, in a statement Friday. ``We strongly support the efforts of these activists to make progress on these challenging issues, and we believe that Chinese authorities should also support them, not silence them.''. Kerry's predecessor Hillary Clinton -- a longtime champion of women's rights who just announced her bid for the U.S. presidency -- called the jailing of the feminists ``inexcusable'' on Twitter, joining the ``free the five'' hashtag campaign. China had rejected all international criticisms, insisting it's a country ruled by law and that its judicial sovereignty be respected. Supporters of the woman activists, however, sense the chilling effect of their ordeal on China's nascent civil society, as the ruling Communist Party under President Xi Jinping continues to tighten its grip over the country. ``Of course people will feel more afraid,'' said Wei's lawyer Wang Qiushi. ``Women's rights is among the most politically correct issues in China -- now even those who took up that cause ended up in jail.''
( CNN ) SpaceX on Tuesday launched a two-stage Falcon 9 rocket carrying an uncrewed cargo spacecraft called Dragon on a flight from Cape Canaveral, Florida, to the International Space Station. That was the easy part. In a difficult bid to land a rocket stage on a floating barge for the first time, the private space exploration company was unsuccessful. SpaceX founder Elon Musk tweeted : ``Ascent successful. Dragon enroute to Space Station. Rocket landed on droneship, but too hard for survival.''. He later clarified that the rocket landed, but tipped over. SpaceX tried to land a Falcon 9 on the drone ship in January, but the rocket hit at an angle and exploded. SpaceX has said it will keep trying and, after it masters landing at sea, hopes to someday land rockets on the ground. Usually booster rockets burn up in Earth's atmosphere or, like NASA's space shuttle boosters, they fall back into the ocean. So why try to land one ?. Musk wants to cut costs. On his company's website, he says that if anyone can figure out how to ``reuse rockets just like airplanes, the cost of access to space will be reduced by as much as a factor of a hundred.''. What about the rest of the rocket and the Dragon ? The smaller, top part of the rocket will carry the Dragon into orbit and then break away from the cargo ship and burn up in Earth's atmosphere. The Dragon will dock with the space station a couple of days after launch to deliver more than 4,300 pounds ( 1,950 kilograms ) of supplies, including research equipment and ISSpresso, an espresso maker that astronauts can use to make coffee and tea. The space station crew will spend about five weeks unpacking the Dragon. They'll then stuff it with over 3,000 pounds of science experiments, trash and other stuff to send back to Earth. When they're done, Dragon will leave the space station and mission controllers will guide it to splashdown in the Pacific Ocean off California. This is the sixth SpaceX mission to the International Space Station. The company was the first private space contractor to dock with the station. Tuesday's launch was the second attempt for this mission. Monday's planned launch was scrubbed due to weather. CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) A Columbia University student who was accused of rape is suing the New York City school for allowing his accuser to publicly brand him a ``serial rapist''. According to the lawsuit, Paul Nungesser was cleared of responsibility in Emma Sulkowicz's 2013 rape claim, as well as others that came to light after Sulkowicz went public with her allegations in various media interviews. Her case drew national attention after she started carrying a mattress around campus to protest the school's handling of the complaint, saying she hoped to show how ``flawed'' the university disciplinary system is when it comes to sexual misconduct cases. CNN does not usually name individuals in sexual assault cases, but in this instance, both parties have spoken publicly about their experience. They have also both said in separate interviews with The New York Times that Nungesser was cleared of responsibility in a disciplinary hearing. Nungesser, an international student from Germany, filed a federal discrimination lawsuit last week against the school ; its president, Lee Bollinger ; and the visual arts professor who oversaw Sulkowicz's mattress project, ``Carry That Weight,'' as part of her senior thesis. The lawsuit alleges the defendants violated Nungesser's right to an education free of gender-based discrimination by allowing Sulkowicz to speak out against him after he had been cleared of wrongdoing. During an April 2014 news conference at Columbia University, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand stood alongside Sulkowicz as she called Nungesser a ``serial rapist'' and said she fears for her safety while he's still on campus. The harassment continued, the lawsuit claims, when Columbia visual arts professor Jon Kessler let Sulkowicz ``transform her personal vendetta'' into a ``Columbia-sponsored calumny'' by supporting ``Carry That Weight'' for her senior thesis, allowing her to earn school credit through ``this outrageous display of harassment and defamation.''. Bollinger also commented on the case in a 2014 New York Magazine profile of Sulkowicz, now a senior at Columbia. ``This is a person who is one of my students, and I care about all of my students. And when one of them feels that she has been a victim of mistreatment, I am affected by that. This is all very painful.''. The defendants ``had the power, as well as the legal and contractual obligation'' to protect Nungesser, who is also a senior, the lawsuit claims. ``By refusing to protect Paul Nungesser, Columbia University first became a silent bystander and then turned into an active supporter of a fellow student's harassment campaign by institutionalizing it and heralding it.''. Columbia University declined to comment on the lawsuit. The school also declined to confirm the outcome of Nungesser's disciplinary proceedings. ``As we have said consistently, we do not and have not commented on individual students or disciplinary cases not only because of federal student privacy law, but also because of our ethical responsibility to ensure all current and future students have confidence that the university will never publicly discuss private matters they share when interacting with counselors and support staff, the campus disciplinary process or other resources we provide to them,'' spokesman Robert Hornsby said in statement. Kessler also declined to comment on the lawsuit. The case has produced dueling narratives from both sides in national media outlets. The most recent came from Nungesser in a Daily Beast article titled, ``Columbia Student : I Didn't Rape Her,'' in which he shared a long exchange of Facebook messages to support his claim that their sex was consensual. Some of those exchanges were included in the lawsuit, but Sulkowicz told CNN they were taken out of context in the suit. She also balked at the idea that Nungesser would sue the school or her professor ``for allowing me to make an art piece.''. ``It's ridiculous that he would read it as a `bullying strategy,' especially given his continued public attempts to smear my reputation, when really it's just an artistic expression of the personal trauma I've experienced at Columbia,'' Sulkowicz wrote in an email. ``If artists are not allowed to make art that reflects on our experiences, then how are we to heal ?''. The project essentially consists of Sulkowicz carrying a twin-size mattress wherever she goes on campus, but not off campus. She's allowed to accept help carrying the object but does not allow herself to ask for help. Nungesser's complaint seeks damages to be determined at trial for harm to his reputation, loss of educational opportunities and future career prospects. CNN's Kristina Sgueglia and Camille Cava contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The arrest and death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore has sparked protests and accusations of police brutality. But it's unclear how Gray, who was arrested on a weapons charge April 12, suffered a severe spinal cord injury that led to his death seven days later. Here are the big questions surrounding this controversial case :. What we know : Gray was arrested on a weapons charge in a high-crime area of Baltimore known for drugs. He ``gave up without the use of force,'' Baltimore Deputy Police Commissioner Jerry Rodriguez said last week. An officer apparently took his Taser out and was prepared to use it on Gray, but he never deployed it, Rodriguez said. And none of the six officers involved in the arrest described using force against the 25-year-old. Gray was placed inside a police van and was able to talk, said Rodriguez, who described Gray as upset. ``And when Mr. Gray was taken out of that van, he could not talk, and he could not breathe,'' according to Rodriguez. Police have said Gray was not buckled in with a seat belt during the ride to a booking center. What we don't know : It's unknown what caused the spinal cord injury that led to his death a week after the arrest, and it's also unknown what, if anything, happened inside the van. What we know : Segments of cell phone video shot from two different positions appear to begin after Gray has been arrested and show officers dragging Gray, who is handcuffed, to a van. He can be heard screaming. ``He was dragged a bit,'' said Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, ``but then you see him using his legs to get into the van, so he was able-bodied when he was in the van. And we know that when he was finally taken out of the van, he was unresponsive.''. One woman who recorded a video of the arrest said she knew Gray. ``When I ran up the street and seen him, the first thing I asked him was he OK because I heard him screaming,'' the woman said. ``He didn't never say yes or no, he just said' I can't breathe' and just was yelling.''. Surveillance video recorded him conscious and talking, police said. That was at 8:54 a.m.. At 9:24 a.m., police called an ambulance for Gray. Police say Gray requested medical attention, including an inhaler, and an ambulance later took him to the University of Maryland Medical Center's Shock Trauma Center. Rawlings-Blake and Deputy Police Commissioner Kevin Davis have said the arresting officers should have asked for medical attention immediately after Gray asked for it. What we don't know : It's unknown why Gray screamed, and the cell phone video doesn't capture the entire incident, start to end. And it's unclear why police didn't call for an ambulance sooner. What we know : In the wake of Gray's death, six police officers were suspended. Their names were released last week. The suspensions are standard procedure after an ``in-custody death,'' said Baltimore Police Department spokesman Capt. Eric Kowalczyk. It doesn't mean the officers did anything wrong or that they were the only officers involved, he said. They are : Lt. Brian Rice, 41, who joined the department in 1997 ; Officer Caesar Goodson, 45, who joined in 1999 ; Sgt. Alicia White, 30, who joined in 2010 ; Officer William Porter, 25, who joined in 2012 ; Officer Garrett Miller, 26, who joined in 2012 ; and Officer Edward Nero, 29, who joined in 2012. Three of the six responding officers were on bicycles when they initially approached Gray, according to Kowalczyk. Another officer joined the arrest after it was initiated, while one more drove the police van, the police spokesman said. What we don't know : The officers say they didn't use force against Gray, but that's not certain. In fact, details about what each of the officers specifically did have not been released. What we know : According to court documents CNN obtained, there were more than 20 criminal court cases in Maryland against Gray, and five of those cases were still active at the time of his death. The cases involve mostly drug-related charges, but there are charges from March for second-degree assault and destruction of property. Gray was due in court on a possession charge on April 24. He had been in and out of prison since 2009 for various drug cases, according to Maryland Department of Corrections spokesman Gerard Shields. In February 2009, he was sentenced to four years in prison for two counts of drug possession with intent to deliver. Shields said he could not determine from records what kind of drug was involved. Gray was paroled on June 30, 2011. On April 4, 2012, Gray was arrested for violating parole but he didn't go back to prison, Shields said, reasoning that whatever Gray allegedly did, it ``was something minor.''. Gray did return to prison in May 2013 for drug possession, serving a month behind bars before his release in June. What we don't know : It's not known whether Gray's criminal past had anything to do with his arrest, or his death. What we know : Protesters have taken to the streets of Baltimore daily since two days after Gray's death, rallying around his family. On the first night, they marched to a local police station chanting ``No justice ! No peace !'' On another occasion they marched to City Hall. The demonstrations have been peaceful on most nights, but on Monday rioters damaged buildings and destroyed police vehicles. Looters stole goods from several stores. Some groups of people intervened, keeping additional looters out of trashed businesses. The demonstrators are pushing to get answers about Gray's death and for ``justice,'' as they define it. Similar protests were held in Ferguson, Missouri, following Michael Brown's death and in New York, after the death of Eric Garner. Other small protests have sprung up in other cities in the past week. ``Mr. Gray's family deserves justice,'' Rawlings-Blake told CNN's Anderson Cooper last week. ``And our community deserves an opportunity to heal, to get better, and to make sure that something like this doesn't happen again. The mayor said that any confirmed information will be promptly relayed to the public. ``I want people to understand that I have no interest in hiding information, holding back information,'' Rawlings-Blake said. Some protesters have called for the officers to be arrested and charged. One organizer called for Police Commissioner Anthony Batts to resign. What we don't know : There's no guarantee protesters will get the kind of definitive answers they want about how and why Gray died. What we know : Baltimore police are looking into Gray's death and are expected to have a report for prosecutors by Friday. The probe, like the suspensions of the six police officers, is standard whenever someone dies while in custody. The police's findings will go to the state's attorney's office, where prosecutors will decide whether charges should be filed. Batts said recently that a medical examiner had some initial findings, but needed to get back the results of toxicology reports, which could take weeks. Rawlings-Blake asked for an outside investigation, given the city's dark history of police misconduct. The U.S. Justice Department, which announced a collaborative reform initiative with Baltimore police in October in light of its past problems, is looking into the Gray case, a spokesman said last week. The point of that federal investigation will be to gauge whether a prosecutable civil rights violation may have occurred. What we don't know : What information that investigators, both local and federal, will turn up and when. It is also unclear if the medical examiner called in spinal experts to view the evidence, a possibility Batts raised at a news conference. What we know : Court documents allege that Baltimore Police Department Officer Garrett Miller arrested Gray after finding a switchblade in his pocket. The Gray family attorney called the allegation a ``sideshow.'' Gray was carrying a ``pocket knife of legal size,'' attorney William Murphy told CNN. Police never saw the knife and chased Gray only after he ran from them, the attorney said. The court documents also say that Gray ``fled unprovoked upon noticing police presence.''. ``The officer noticed a knife clipped to the inside of his front right pants pocket. The defendant was arrested without force or incident,'' the documents say. ``The knife was recovered by this officer and found to be a spring-assisted, one-hand-operated knife.''. Maryland law makes it illegal to ``wear or carry a dangerous weapon of any kind'' -- including switchblades -- ``concealed on or about the person.''. What we don't know : It's not clear that simply having a knife is a crime, said Rawlings-Blake. ``It is not necessarily probable cause to chase someone. So, we still have questions,'' she said. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Stephanie Gallman, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Dana Ford and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The people of Nepal are still trying to recover from two major earthquakes and a mudslide. Each day is a struggle in many parts of of the country, but there is something you can do to make an impact. We have vetted a list of organizations working in Nepal that have created specific funds for relief efforts, including :. -- Nepal Red Cross Society. -- ActionAid USA. -- Action Against Hunger. -- Adventist Development and Relief Agency International. -- American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. -- The American Jewish World Service. -- AmeriCares. -- CARE. -- Catholic Relief Services. -- ChildFund International. -- Concern Worldwide. -- Convoy of Hope. -- Direct Relief. -- dZi Foundation. -- Empower Generation. -- Global Giving. -- Habitat for Humanity. -- Handicap International. -- Himalayan HealthCare. -- International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. -- International Medical Corps. -- International Relief Teams. -- Islamic Relief USA. -- Jewish Federations of North America. -- Lutheran World Relief. -- MAP International. -- Medical Teams International. -- MercyCorps. -- NFCC International. -- Operation Blessing International. -- Operation USA. -- Oxfam International. -- Plan International. -- Real Medicine Foundation. -- Save the Children. -- The Salvation Army. -- Samaritan's Purse. -- Seva Foundation. -- Shelterbox. -- Team Rubicon. -- UNICEF. -- WaterAid. -- The World Food Programme. -- World Vision.
Atlanta ( CNN ) Silently moving deep beneath the ocean's surface, combat submarines can employ the element of surprise to carry out devastating attacks on naval fleets and land targets. For decades, the U.S. military has maintained its dominance in the depths of the world's oceans by boasting the most technologically advanced submarine fleet. However, officials say China and other nations are rapidly expanding the size and scope of their own submarine forces. And, according to a report by the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, the U.S. must rethink the role of manned submarines and prioritize new underwater detection techniques. ``We know they are out experimenting and looking at operating, and clearly want to be in this world of advanced submarines,'' Vice Adm. Joseph Mulloy told the House Armed Services Committee's sea power subcommittee in February. Mulloy, who is deputy chief of naval operations for capabilities and resources, says Chinese submarines are still technologically inferior to those used by the United States, but that margin of difference is shrinking. Concern that China could match U.S. underwater capabilities in the near future has encouraged the development of an unmanned drone ship to independently track enemy ultra-quiet diesel electric submarines over thousands of miles to limit their tactical capacity for surprise. Initiated by a Pentagon research group called the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ), the Anti-Submarine Warfare Continuous Trail Vessel ( ACTUV ) would be able to operate under with little supervisory control but also as remotely controlled or piloted vessels, depending on the circumstances of specific missions. ``We're looking for test-ready, multi-sensor approaches that push the boundaries of today's automated sensing systems for unmanned surface vessels,'' said Scott Littlefield, DARPA program manager. ``Enhancing the ability of these kinds of vessels to sense their environment in all weather and traffic conditions, day or night, would significantly advance our ability to conduct a range of military missions.''. DARPA says the so-called drone ships will be 132 feet long and likely cost about $ 20 million, significantly less than the billion-dollar manned warships currently in use. The development of the ACTUV aligns with the ``culture change'' described by Navy Secretary Ray Mabus Tuesday at the Navy League's Sea Air Space symposium at National Harbor, Maryland. ``Unmanned systems, particularly autonomous ones, have to be the new normal in ever-increasing areas,'' Maybus said. Maybus said new staff will be put into place to help streamline, coordinate and champion unmanned systems in ``all domains.''. An ACTUV prototype vessel is already in production and, if testing is successful, the Navy could move to the next phase of development by 2018.
( CNN ) Feidin Santana, the man who recorded a South Carolina police officer fatally shooting a fleeing, unarmed man, told CNN on Thursday night he was told by another cop to stop using his phone to capture the incident. ``One of the officers told me to stop, but it was because I ( said ) to them that what they did it was an abuse and I witnessed everything,'' he told CNN's ``Anderson Cooper 360 ˚.''. Santana told Cooper an officer told him to wait where he was but eventually he left the scene to go to work. In other interviews, Santana has said he feared for his life, which almost kept him from revealing the recording. Santana recalled the moments when he recorded a roughly three-minute video of North Charleston Police officer Michael Slager shooting Walter Scott as Scott was running away Saturday. That evidence led to the officer's firing and arrest on a murder charge. Santana said when he first came on the scene while walking to his job he saw Slager on top of Scott, who was on the ground. He could hear the sound of a Taser in use. At no time did Santana see Scott go after the Taser. He believes Scott was trying to get away. ``Mr. Scott never tried to fight,'' Santana told CNN. Police said Slager used a Taser against Scott, but Slager would also later tell a dispatcher that Scott at some point had grabbed the Taser. After Slager shot Scott five times, the officer went back to pick up something. Santana thinks it was the Taser but said he wasn't 100 % sure what it was. Neither the struggle nor the use of a Taser was captured on video, because Santana had yet to begin recording. What we know about Officer Slager. The cell phone video, which Santana revealed this week, reignited national outcries surrounding police treatment of African-Americans and led to a murder charge against Slager, who is white. Scott was black. Police said Slager pulled the 50-year-old Scott over for a nonworking brake light on Saturday morning. Scott, according to a dash cam video, fled from Slager for unexplained reasons, and the officer chased him on foot. When Santana's video begins, Scott starts running away from the officer, with Scott's back to Slager. The video shows Slager shooting at Scott eight times before Scott falls down. Who was Walter Scott ?. Scott's mother, Judy Scott, told Cooper this week that she would want to thank Santana for coming forward. ``He was there. God planned that. He's the ram in the bush -- I truly believe that,'' Judy Scott said. Santana agreed. ``I think she was right,'' he said. ``God put me there for a reason.''. Judy Scott said she couldn't watch the whole recording. ``When I saw my son running and I saw the policeman behind him, I couldn't take it,'' she said. ``I had to turn away. I couldn't handle it. In an interview with NBC's Matt Lauer, Santana suggested that he was giving media interviews in part to protect himself against retribution. ``At some point I thought about staying anonymous, and don't show my face, don't talk about it. But.. if I wouldn't show my face, everybody over there knows, including the police, who I am,'' Santana said. Santana did not say whether he had received threats. His attorney, Todd Rutherford, said Santana's video would be useful in an investigation -- not only into the shooting but also into whether Scott received prompt medical attention. In the last half of the video, a second officer appears to examine Scott with gloved hands. Witness video, official accounts raise questions. Santana said after he stopped recording, he watched for a few more minutes but never saw anyone perform CPR. A police report says a third officer -- not shown in the video -- reported seeing an officer administering first aid, and that the third officer approached and helped that person ``with first aid and CPR.''. On Wednesday, asked whether CPR was performed on Scott, North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers said : ``In the end of it ( the video ), what I saw was ( what I ) believed to be a police officer removing the shirt of the individual and performing some type of life-saving ( procedure ), but I'm not sure what took place there.''. A timeline of events. CNN's Jason Hanna, Ashley Fantz and Ray Sanchez contributed to this report. Watch Anderson Cooper 360 ° weeknights 8pm ET. For the latest from AC360 ° click here.
( CNN ) This week brought a dramatic turn of events in a small community outside of Detroit : A man bloodied during a traffic stop was cleared of all charges, the police officer who arrested the motorist is charged with beating him and the community's police chief has stepped down. On Monday, Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy announced charges of assault and mistreatment of a prisoner against William Melendez. He's the 49-year-old former Inkster, Michigan, police officer who is seen in police car dashcam video grabbing the unarmed motorist, Floyd Dent, around the neck while he lay on the ground and punching him several times in the head. ``The alleged police brutality in this case can not and will not be tolerated,'' Worthy said. On Wednesday, drug charges against Dent, 57, were formally dropped in Michigan Circuit Court, clearing the motorist of all wrongdoing. ``He busted out crying and was very emotional,'' said Angela Martin, the assistant to Dent's attorney. In the wake of the reversal of fates, Police Chief Vicki Yost announced Wednesday her resignation, according to Inkster City Manager Richard Marsh. Marsh would not cite a specific reason for Yost's investigation, though she had been the face of the Police Department during the investigation into her former officer. In a statement, Dent and his attorney Greg Rohl told CNN : ``We are all ecstatic, especially Mr. Dent. This is another step in the right direction. The system is still working, and we are very hopeful the prosecutor's net will catch even more fish in the near future.''. Yost did not respond to a request for comment. Dent, a veteran Ford automotive worker, was arrested after the January traffic stop on charges of drug possession, assaulting an officer and resisting arrest. With the court decision Wednesday, all charges from the arrest have been dropped. Melendez pleaded not guilty to the new charges brought against him in an arraignment Tuesday at Inkster District Court, according to his lawyer, David Lee. ``We intend to vigorously contest the charges,'' Lee said. ``I can understand how people might be disturbed by looking at -LSB- the video -RSB- ; however ; I hope everyone will withhold judgment until all the facts come out where they should in a court of law.''. Worthy's announcement came after the conclusion of two investigations into the incident by Michigan State Police and the Wayne County Prosecutor's Office. In the police report written after the January arrest, Melendez wrote that he hit Dent only after Dent had threatened him and bit him in the arm. Melendez wrote that as he approached the car, Dent kept his hands from view, looked at him ``with a blank stare as if on a form of narcotic,'' and said, ``I'll kill you.''. Dent told CNN at the time that he had never threatened nor bit the police officer. ``I didn't bite anyone. I didn't have time to bite anyone. He was too busy pounding me in my head,'' Dent said. Rohl also alleged that the cocaine found at the scene had been planted by Melendez. ``My client's fingerprints will not be on that bag,'' Rohl told WDIV.
( CNN ) The United Nations is appealing for $ 174 million to help Nigerian refugees who've fled to neighboring nations following militant attacks. Boko Haram has killed thousands in the nation's northeast by attacking villages, schools, churches and mosques. It has also kidnapped students, including more than 200 schoolgirls abducted in April last year. A majority of them remain missing. The militants have attacked relentlessly for six years, sending 192,000 people seeking shelter in Cameroon, Niger and Chad. ``Displaced people in northeastern Nigeria and across borders are in a very dramatic situation, they fear for their lives and are at this point unable to return to their homes,'' said Liz Ahua, who's coordinating Nigerian refugee efforts for the U.N. Aid agencies are scrambling to provide the refugees with clean water, shelter, food and access to education. ``In the refugee camps, thousands of school-age refugee children can not attend school because of lack of classrooms and teachers,'' Ahua said. Mental health needs are crucial to help the survivors of physical attacks and those who've witnessed violence, according to the U.N. Some children are separated from their parents amid the trauma. ``The conflict has had a devastating impact on children, including many who were forcibly recruited by the insurgents in Nigeria,'' Ahua said. The appeal encompasses the needs of 23 agencies and nongovernmental organizations helping the refugees. ``Adequate funding is crucial to make sure aid agencies can improve the living conditions for refugees in asylum countries and respond to their protection needs,'' Ahua said. ``We relocate refugees away from the conflict border areas, and establish additional refugee camps where needed.''. The Islamist group has said its aim is to impose a stricter form of Sharia law across Nigeria, which is split between a majority Muslim north and a mostly Christian south. An additional 1.2 million people are displaced within Nigeria as a result of the insurgency. CNN's Pierre Meilhan contributed to this report.
Sao Paulo, Brazil ( CNN ) Throngs of protesters packed the streets of major Brazilian cities on Sunday, pushing for the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff. Fueled by mounting anger over a corruption scandal that has implicated politicians in Rousseff's party, demonstrators chanted ``Out with Dilma'' and ``Time for change.''. Police estimated that 275,000 demonstrators marched in Sao Paulo. A sea of protesters dressed in the green and yellow of the Brazilian flag used decades-old rallying cries to fire up their ranks, singing rock songs that date back to protests of the country's one-time military dictatorship. It's the second day of nationwide anti-government demonstrations in less than a month. And protesters vowed that it wouldn't be the last. There are a number of issues at play. One of the biggest : an investigation into a multimillion-dollar kickback scheme at the state-run oil company Petrobras. Most of the politicians accused in the investigation belong to Rousseff's Workers Party and its allies. And during many of the years that the alleged corruption took place, Rousseff was the chairwoman of Petrobras. There hasn't been any evidence she was involved with the scheme, and her supporters say the position is merely a figurehead. Rousseff has defended Brazilians' right to protest and acknowledged the need to clean up corruption at Petrobras but denied any prior knowledge of the alleged kickback scheme. Brazilians are still outraged. Rousseff won re-election with just over 50 % of the votes in October, but her approval rating plummeted to 13 % after protests began last month. ``Many things have changed since the election,'' Janaina, a protester in Sao Paulo, said on Sunday, noting that even some people who voted for Rousseff were in the crowd. Some protesters said they'd rather see Rousseff step down than push for impeachment, which could be difficult to push through without evidence tying the President directly to the corruption scandal. But Janaina said impeachment remained a realistic option. ``Yes, it has to be,'' she said. ``It's our last hope.''. CNN's Shasta Darlington reported from Sao Paulo. CNN's Marilia Brocchetto, Catherine E. Shoichet and Jessica King contributed to this report.
( CNN ) In 2001, the Taliban wiped out 1700 years of history in a matter of seconds, by blowing up ancient Buddha statues in central Afghanistan with dynamite. They proceeded to do so after an attempt at bringing down the 175-foot tall sculptures with anti-aircraft artillery had failed. Sadly, the event was just the first in a series of atrocities that have robbed the world of some of its most prized cultural heritage. But historical architecture is also under threat from calamities which might well escape our control, such as earthquakes and climate change. The thought of losing a piece of our collective history is a bleak one. But if loss can't be avoided, technology can lend a hand. Now CyArk, a non-profit company founded by an Iraqi-born engineer, is using groundbreaking laser scanning to ensure that -- at the very least -- incredibly accurate digital versions of the world's treasures will stay with us forever. Ben Kacyra was born in Mosul, Iraq, in 1940. He moved to the United States in 1964, and in the 1990s he was instrumental in the design of the first portable laser scanner. He founded CyArk, a company that specializes in digital preservation of threatened ancient and historical architecture, in 2003. ``Two events happened that really influenced me and my wife,'' he told CNN's Nick Glass, ``The Taliban blew up the Buddhas and an earthquake happened in Bam, in Iran. ``It demolished a whole mud city. So we looked at each other and we said, you know, sometimes you can't prevent an earthquake, obviously, and it's very expensive to go back and rebuild, but if it had been scanned, our children and grandchildren would get the opportunity to come back and learn the history of that place.''. Since then, Kacyra has been doing exactly that : in a 2011 TED talk he explained his quest to preserve our ``collective treasure'', and he has a plan to scan 500 World Heritage sites in five years. So far, the list of completed scans includes Ancient Thebes, Chichen Itza, Fort Laramie, Mesa Verde, Mount Rushmore, Petra, Pompeii, Rapa Nui, the Sydney Opera House, Tikal, and his native Mosul. The idea is not just to protect endangered structures, but to offer free educational access to the digital recreations of important monuments via the web. ``We have that data, and if something -- God forbid -- happens to these, the data is there,'' says Kacyra. In fact, current events have already caught up with the project : the Royal Tombs of Kasubi, in Uganda, were destroyed in 2010 by suspected arson. CyArk had mapped them a year earlier, and that could lead to the reconstruction of what was lost. ``I'm constantly looking at what's happening in Iraq and Syria. ``I'm so glad that we had already started and developed the tools that allowed us to go and be proactive to capture some of these things before these very unfortunate events.''. To scan the surroundings, CyArk uses a portable, eye-safe laser device based on a technology called Lidar -- a portmanteau of the words light and radar. It accurately maps a physical area much like a radar, but using lasers instead of radio waves. ``We have a very powerful laser that sends a beam of light pulsing 50,000 times per second,'' explains Kacyra, ``which means that it's collecting 50,000 points of everything that's in front it as it pulses up and down and in a circular fashion, generating the geometry of everything that's in the space around it.''. In other words, ``We gave the world a 3D laser scanner that has revolutionized how reality is captured.''. Although its focus is in providing open access to cultural heritage, CyArk is also attracting interest for alternative uses of the technology. ``We are discovering applications way beyond what we had anticipated,'' says Kacyra. ``For example, the Highway Patrol wants to use it in accident reconstruction on the road or in crime scene investigations. Where did the bullets go, trajectories and all that - this gives you the entire thing in minutes and then you can do all the analysis work.''. Not even Hollywood is immune from the allure of laser scanning. ``Imagine it going all the way to art, the movies, movie sets. My wife got really excited about the first use in the movie field.''. Before founding CyArk, Kacyra had developed a similar technology called Cyrax, which he then subsequently sold. This technology was first used during the production of the 1997 sci-fi cult movie Starship Troopers, to scan an underground cave. ``They found out it was going to cost too much money to measure the cave so they could model it, something like half a million dollars and six weeks. ``They had heard about our scanning system so we went there. I think we did it for 20,000 dollars, and in a day or two, and it got used in a movie for the first time. ``It's ubiquitous now in the movie industry for virtual sets.''
Tokyo ( CNN ) A former school principal in Japan says he paid for sex with more than 12,000 women -- some of them girls as young as 14 -- during repeated visits to the Philippines over more than a quarter of a century, according to police. Now, at the age of 64, he's facing criminal charges. Japanese police say they arrested the man, Yuhei Takashima, on Wednesday over allegations he photographed an obscene act with a girl of 13 or 14 and produced pornography in a hotel room in Manila, the Philippine capital. Police officers seized 147,600 photos that Takashima took of his activities over the years, said Takeshi Akimoto, the police officer in charge of crime involving minors in Kanagawa, a prefecture south of Tokyo. The pictures were kept in more than 400 photo albums, he said. Takashima, who comes from the city of Yokohama, told police that he began paying for sex with women in 1988 when he went to work at a Japanese school in Manila. He said that stepping outside of moral codes relieved the heavy pressure he felt at work, according to police. Takashima told police that he continued to pay for sex because it was so cheap. After the end of his three-year stint at the school in Manila, he frequently returned to the Philippines on vacations in order to buy sex. He said the ages of the prostitutes he hired ranged from 14 to over 70. The Philippines is a notorious destination for sex tourists, including pedophiles. The country's sex industry is tied to human trafficking and feeds off the high poverty rate. Akimoto, the police officer, said Takashima's case had been under investigation since 2013. The incident for which he was arrested is believed to have taken place in Manila in January 2014. Yokohama education authorities said that Takashima became a junior high school teacher in 1975 and was sent to work at the school in Manila between 1988 and 1991. He served as a junior high school principal from 2008 until his retirement in 2011. The education authorities said that the crime was very regrettable, if proven to be true, and that the city government works hard to try to prevent inappropriate actions. CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki reported from Tokyo, and Jethro Mullen wrote from Hong Kong.
( CNN ) Authorities in South Carolina have released dash cam video in connection with the fatal shooting of Walter Scott, but the footage does not show the actual shooting. Video from the patrol car of North Charleston's Michael Slager shows an initial traffic stop and early interactions between the officer and Scott. Slager approaches Scott's vehicle. The two men speak. Scott tells the officer he does not have insurance and is in the process of purchasing the vehicle. Slager then returns to his patrol car. Scott exits his vehicle, briefly, and Slager tells him to stay in the car. Scott then gets out of the car, again, and runs away, out of the range of the dash cam. The video, which was released Thursday, also shows a passenger in Scott's car. The passenger's identity was not given in a police report obtained by CNN, but another officer responding to the incident said in the report that the passenger was detained and placed in the back seat of a police vehicle. Scott family attorney Chris Stewart told CNN the man with Scott was a co-worker and friend. He did not identify the friend by name. When asked what might have motivated Scott to run, Justin Bamberg, another attorney for the family, speculated that Scott might have been concerned about child support issues. Scott owed back payments on child support totaling $ 18,104.43, according to Charleston County family court documents obtained by CNN. He had a bench warrant issued against him for failure to pay at the time he was stopped by Slager. But Bamberg was adamant the dash cam video does not alter what happened. ``This dash cam footage does not change the fact that at the moment the officer shot and killed Mr. Scott -- that shooting was completely unjustified. And that is the key point of both the criminal investigation and the civil lawsuit,'' the lawyer said. The North Charleston Police Department is not providing more information, citing an ongoing investigation of Scott's killing that's being conducted by the independent South Carolina Law Enforcement Division ( SLED ). Many questions remain about what happened on Saturday when Officer Slager pulled Scott over for what police have said was a broken taillight. In the police report that CNN obtained, a responding officer said that Slager said that at one point he started to chase Scott down a street. ``Shots fired and the subject is down,'' the officer writes that Slager said. ``He took my Taser.''. But a witness who shot cell phone video of the incident says he never saw Scott try to get Slager's Taser. Feidin Santana was walking to work when he saw Slager and Scott struggle on the ground, he told NBC's Lester Holt on Wednesday. Santana then took out his phone and started recording video. ``I remember the police ( officer ) had control of the situation. He had control of Scott,'' Santana said. Then, Santana said, he heard the sound of a Taser. It seemed to Santana that Scott was trying to get away and avoid being zapped with the Tasered again. On Thursday, a second witness spoke to CNN about what she saw. Gwen Nichols said she was in the neighborhood when she heard police cars speeding by and, curious, she followed them. She saw Scott and Slager at the entrance to a vacant lot. ``It was like a tussle type of thing, like, you know, like, `What do you want ?' or `What did I do ?' type of thing,'' said Nichols, who said she has not yet talked to police about what she saw. ``I didn't hear Mr. Slager saying : `Stop !''' she said. Feidin showed the video to the Scott family. But Santana has said fear for his own life almost kept him from revealing the tape. In interviews with MSNBC and NBC, Santana recalled the moments when he recorded the video. ``I.. thought about erasing the video,'' Santana told MSNBC's ``All in With Chris Hayes'' in an interview that aired Wednesday evening. ``I felt that my life, with this information, might be in danger.''. The video shows Slager shooting eight times at Scott as Scott runs away. Witness : I nearly erased shooting video out of fear. An autopsy showed that Scott suffered multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body. Before the officer starts firing his gun in the video, a dark object falls behind him and hits the ground. It's not clear whether that is the Taser. Later in the video, when the officer approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man. It's also not clear whether that is the Taser. It's unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body. Slager has been fired and charged with murder. He is white. Scott, who was unarmed, was black. Timeline of events. Scott's shooting stirred memories of the Michael Brown case in Ferguson, Missouri, where an unarmed black teenager was killed by a white police officer. A grand jury declined to indict the officer in that case. But not everyone agreed that Scott's case is like Brown's or that race was a factor. Asked how he felt about Slager being charged with murder, Santana answered that ``no one can feel happy.''. ``He has his family, and Mr. Scott also has his family,'' he told Holt. ``But I think, you know, he made a bad decision.. Mr. Scott didn't deserve this. And there were other ways that can be used to get him arrested. And that wasn't the proper way to do that.''. Lessons learned from Ferguson to North Charleston. The FBI is investigating, as is SLED. ``I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw,'' North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters Wednesday. Mayor Keith Summey spoke at the same news conference, which was repeatedly interrupted by protesters who chanted : ``No justice ! No peace !'' They called for the mayor to step down. Summey said that the city has ordered an additional 150 body cameras ``so every officer on the street'' in the city will have one. That is in addition to 101 body cameras already ordered, he said. Just before the conference was set to begin, demonstrators walked in. They were led by a man wearing a ``Black Lives Matter'' T-shirt who shouted, ``This is what democracy looks like !''. 2010 census data show that North Charleston is 47 % black and 42 % white. The makeup of the city's Police Department is unclear, though it's been widely reported that 2007 federal figures indicated it was about 80 % black. Three of 10 City Council members are black. It's unclear what Slager's motivation was, or if race played a part in Scott's slaying. ``We can't get into the brain of another individual, so we can't state that,'' Scott family attorney Stewart said. ``I think it would be irresponsible to say that and try and inflame a community or anything of that nature.''. If convicted, Slager could face life in prison or the death penalty. Who is Officer Slager ?. An autopsy of Scott showed that he ``sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body,'' and his death was the result of a homicide, the Charleston County Coroner's Office said. Asked whether CPR was performed on Scott after Slager shot him, Driggers said : ``In the end of it ( the video ), what I saw was ( what I ) believed to be a police officer removing the shirt of the individual and performing some type of life-saving ( procedure ), but I'm not sure what took place there.''. When Scott's brother Anthony saw the video, he was convinced Slager's account of what happened was not true, he told CNN. ``There was not a struggle for the Taser,'' Anthony Scott said. ``I didn't believe my brother would have done that anyway.''. To Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was ``running for his life'' away from the officer. ``I think my brother was thinking he was not going to be shot, no one would have thought that,'' Scott said. Family members have adamantly repeated that they don't want protests over Scott's slaying to become violent. And, so far, the demonstrations have been passionate but peaceful. Scott's mother, Judy Scott, told CNN's Anderson Cooper that she feels ``forgiveness in my heart, even for the guy that shot and killed my son.''. ``He was a loving son, a loving father,'' she said. ``He cared about his family and.. no matter what happens, it will not replace my son.''. Who was Walter Scott ?. CNN's Tony Marco, Ryan Scallan, Christine Bear, Tristan Smith, Martin Savidge, Brian Todd, Dana Ford, Sam Stringer and Evan Perez contributed to this report.
( CNN ) When 65 cases of 20-year-old Pappy Van Winkle -- one of the rarest and most expensive bourbons in the world -- were reported missing from a Kentucky distillery in October 2013, it was the crime heard round the whiskey-drinking world. Franklin County Sheriff Pat Melton, the man leading the investigation into the estimated $ 26,000 in missing Pappy, said at the time that the high-end heist was ``indicative of an inside job.'' But ever since, the trail went largely cold. Until now. On Tuesday, a Franklin County grand jury indicted ``nine members of a criminal syndicate that collaborated to promote or engage in the theft.. and illegal trafficking'' of liquor from two different Kentucky distilleries : Frankfort's Buffalo Trace -- makers of Pappy -- and the nearby Wild Turkey Distillery, makers of the eponymous bourbon, according to the indictment. Just like making good bourbon -- a specific type of whiskey synonymous with the Bluegrass State -- Melton's case required time to develop and old-fashioned Kentucky ingenuity. The sheriff's hunch was reflected in the indictment : Of the nine named, two worked at Buffalo Trace and one worked at Wild Turkey. The alleged ringleader, according to Assistant Commonwealth Attorney Zach Becker, is Gilbert ``Toby'' Curtsinger, a 45-year-old loading dock worker at the Buffalo Trace Distillery. Curtsinger and his wife, Julie, each face eight charges for allegedly engaging in organized crime. Curtsinger -- who has worked at Buffalo Trace for more than 20 years -- was arrested in March after authorities, acting on a tip, found five barrels of bourbon behind a shed on his property, according to CNN affiliate WKYT. Those barrels, weighing more than 500 pounds each and worth up to $ 6,000 apiece, had recently been stolen from Wild Turkey, Melton told BourbonBlog.com's Tom Fischer. While an additional search warrant allegedly turned up illegal steroids from Curtsinger's home, there was no sign of any Pappy. ``He doesn't know anything about ( stolen Pappy Van Winkle ),'' his mother, Teresa Curtsinger, told CNN last month. In fact, she said, once he bonded out of jail, Curtsinger returned to his job at Buffalo Trace. However, according to Melton, ``Curtsinger was involved in numerous thefts of Pappy Van Winkle, as well as Eagle Rare bourbon, both in bottles and barrels.'' Melton said Curtsinger distributed the highly coveted bourbon through a network of connections in his softball league. Teresa Curtsinger did not immediately return a message Tuesday. But Gilbert Curtsinger's attorney, Whitney Lawson, told the Courier-Journal of Louisville, ``we've been waiting patiently for this to happen. We're glad that if they're going to indict that they've indicted so we can get to work.''. At a press conference announcing the indictments, Melton got emotional as he described the tremendous amount of effort put into the investigation. '' ( Franklin County detectives ) have done an absolute incredible job,'' he said as he choked back tears. ``And I'm thrilled to have been a part of it.''. Fischer, the whiskey blogger, got a different kind of emotional tug from what flanked the sheriff : several hundred thousand dollars' worth of recovered booze -- including 20 cases of Pappy. Whether those 20 were among the 65 that vanished is not immediately known, but that didn't matter to Fischer. ``On behalf of bourbon lovers everywhere, we are thrilled that the Pappy is back !''
( CNN ) Jon Reiter is no stranger to Mount Everest -- its world-record height, its prestige, its challenges. And its dangers. He learned that again shortly before noon Saturday, after a monster magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal. It not only rattled cities like Kathmandu and Pokhara, but caused avalanches at Everest and nearby peaks. Reiter was safe but shaken by the devastation. He told his wife, Susan, about his putting one dead person in a sleeping bag and zipping it up, seeing others killed by the falling ice and collapsing snow, and doing all he could to help others fighting for their lives. ``It's been a really rough day,'' Susan Reiter told CNN. ``Jon's been comforting injured people that he doesn't think will survive.''. Jon Reiter told CNN on Sunday morning that 17 people had been killed on the mountain. The Indian Army's Everest Expedition evacuated the bodies of 13 mountaineers from a base camp who had been preparing to scale the mountain, spokesman Col. Rohan Anand said Saturday. Separately, Dr. Nima Namgyal told CNN he has seen 14 bodies so far. Many of those killed came from other countries, according to Namagyal, something that's not surprising given Everest's lure for many hikers around the world. What may be as remarkable is all those who survived, a number that's likely in the hundreds. They are women and men like Alex Gavan, who tweeted about running for his life from his tent. ``Huge disaster,'' the mountaineer said hours later, warning that the death toll could skyrocket if helicopters didn't come quickly to evacuate those hurt. ``Helped searched and rescued victims through huge debris area. Many dead. Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli asap.''. Another hiker, Carsten Lillelund Pedersen, wrote on Facebook that ``a huge avalanche swept over basecamp'' that had almost 500 tents, saying he survived by hiding behind a stone structure. Afterward, the camp's dining tent was transformed into a makeshift hospital headed by the camp manager, who happens to be a doctor. And even hours after the biggest quake struck, the threat of more casualties -- and the challenge of finding out how high the toll actually is -- remained very real. ``On top of the whiteout after the avalanche it has been snowing since last night so it is difficult to see the following avalanches, and there are so many - maybe one every 5 min - that I have stopped counting,'' Pedersen wrote on Facebook. ``This also makes it more difficult to search for people.''. Several companies specialize in bringing hikers to Everest. One of the biggest is Alpine Ascents International, based in Washington state. ``The Alpine Ascents International Mt. Everest climbing team was in the icefall and is now safe at Camp 1, avoiding the avalanche that hit Base Camp,'' the Seattle-based company reported on Facebook. ``Please keep those affected in your thoughts as we continue to receive updated reports on the damage and losses in Nepal.''. But not every foreign company that brings climbers to Nepal was so lucky. Two reported the deaths of Americans on the mountain. That includes British-based Jagged Globe, which has offered mountaineering expeditions, courses, adventure skiing and other experiences for the past 20 years. The company reported Saturday that American Dan Fredinburg died in the Everest base camp avalanche, while two others suffered non-life-threatening injuries. A Google executive who made headlines for dating actress Sophia Bush, Fredinburg had been posting photos and updates of his adventures in Nepal on Instragram and Twitter, where he referred to himself as an ``adventurer, inventor, and energetic engineer.''. His sister updated the account with a message, saying he suffered a major head injury. ``We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us. All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us,'' his sister, Megan, wrote. The expedition company sent its condolences. ``Our thoughts and prayers go out to Dan's family and friends,'' read a statement on Jagged Globe's website, ``whilst we pray too for all those who have lost their lives in one of the greatest tragedies ever to hit this Himalayan nation.''. Eve Girawong, a base camp medic from New Jersey who worked on the mountain, also was killed, according to her family and employer. ``On behalf of my family, it is with deep sadness that I write that our beloved daughter, younger sister and best friend has been taken from us today. Nong Eve Girawong was doing the thing she loved doing most -- helping others. Words can not describe the heartbreak and pain that we are currently suffering,'' a family member wrote on Facebook. She was working for Madison Mountaineering, a boutique mountain guide service based in Seattle. Kurt Hunter, one of the company's co-founders, confirmed her death. Jim Whittaker, the first American to reach the summit of Mount Everest back in 1963, is still a mentor to experienced climbers trying to follow in his footsteps. The 86-year-old confirmed that climbers he knows to currently be on Everest are safe. But some are trapped above the icefall, ``which is very dangerous anyway,'' Whittaker told CNN. Since the avalanches, ``the whole route would be different now than before the quake. They'll have to put a new route in from base camp up through that icefall.. They ( the climbers ) will have to cool it for a couple days, way until the route is reestablished.. they've got enough food and fuel for the stoves.''. His son, Leif Whittaker, told CNN that he hasn't heard from everyone he knows to be on Everest. ``It's really tragic and I'm really saddened by the news,'' he said. ``I have a lot friends in the area and friends on Everest right now. It's hard to get news from base camp and the mountains because communication is difficult as it is. Many of my friends are safe, but I'm not sure if all of them are. ``It's been a bad few years on Everest,'' he said. ``My heart goes out to them, and I'm sending them my love and strength.''. This tragedy struck just over a year after another deadly avalanche on the 29,035-foot peak that likewise sent everyone -- from seasoned Sherpas to foreign tourists -- running for their lives. At least 13 Nepalese locals and Sherpas were killed in that incident, which at the time was the deadliest incident ever around Everest. The highest single-day death toll before then came in May 1996, when eight climbers disappeared during a big storm -- an episode chronicled in Jon Krakauer's bestselling book, ``Into Thin Air.''. Given the scale of the avalanches and fact they occurred near the start of the busy spring climbing season, it's possible this day could turn out to be the most deadly. Climbers traditionally arrive in April to get acclimated to the high altitude before trying to scale the summit. There's no guarantee they'll get the chance to go up this season. After last year's avalanches, the mountain was shut down. But whether it's their livelihood or their obsession, the people who tackle Everest will be back. ``This is our job,'' said Pasang Sherpa, who lost ``friends in brothers'' in the 2014 avalanche. ``So there is always a risk of death.''. For many mountaineers, the draw of Everest has long been hard to resist. One of them is Reiter, who has scaled all of ``The Seven Summits'' -- the highest mountain on each of the seven continents -- except this one. This would be his third straight year trying. He turned back in 2013 ``because it didn't feel right'' and survived last year's avalanche, according to his wife Susan. Her husband phoned her multiple times since the latest avalanches, reassuring her that he's OK physically even as he struggles emotionally with the tragedy. But does that mean he won't go back to try to scale Everest again ?. ``You would think that he wouldn't because of this and because of last year,'' Susan Reiter said from her Northern California home. ``But knowing my husband I think he will. I hope not, but I don't want to hold him back.''. Nepal rescue efforts come down to neighbors. CNN's Katia Hetter, Jessica King and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
Panama City, Panama ( CNN ) Ending a decades-long standstill in U.S.-Cuba relations, President Barack Obama met for an hour Saturday with his Cuban counterpart Raul Castro, the first time the two nations' top leaders have sat down for substantive talks in more than 50 years. The meeting in a small conference room on the sidelines of the Summit of the Americas came as the two countries work to end the Cold War enmity that had led to a total freeze of diplomatic ties. And while both leaders proclaimed progress had been made, a key stumbling block -- Cuba's place on the U.S. list of countries that sponsor terror -- remained unresolved. ``This is obviously an historic meeting,'' Obama said at the beginning of his session with Castro, claiming that decades of strain had done little to benefit either Cubans or citizens of the United States. ``It was time for us to try something new,'' he said. ``We are now in a position to move on a path toward the future.''. Castro, who earlier in the day said he trusted Obama, acknowledged there would be difficult stumbling blocks as his nation works to repair ties with the United States. But he said those differences could be surmounted. ``We are willing to discuss everything, but we need to be patient, very patient,'' Castro said. ``We might disagree on something today on which we could agree tomorrow.''. Speaking to reporters after his session with Castro, Obama said the meeting was ``candid and fruitful'' and could prove to be a ``turning point'' in his push to defrost ties with Cuba. But he said he hadn't yet decided whether to remove Cuba's designation as a state sponsor of terror, an outcome that had previously been expected during the summit. The State Department provided Obama with a review of the terror status this week. ``I want to make sure I have a chance to read it, study it before we announce publicly what the policy outcome is going to be,'' Obama said. ``But in terms of the overall direction of Cuba policy, I think there is a strong majority both in the United States and in Cuba that says our ability to engage, to open up commerce and travel and people to people exchanges is ultimately going to be good for Cuban people.''. On Friday night, Obama and Castro greeted each other courteously amid an explosion of camera flashes, shaking hands before dining at the inaugural session of the conference. The two sat at the same table but not directly next to one another. Before Obama arrived in Panama on Wednesday, he spoke with Castro by phone, laying the groundwork for what will become a new era of relations between the neighboring countries. ``The Cold War has been over for a long time,'' Obama said during opening remarks at the summit Saturday. ``I'm not interested in having battles, frankly, that began before I was born.''. That exhortation, however, seemed to be lost on Castro himself, who expanded what was meant to be a six-minute speech into a 50-minute address lecturing leaders on Cuba's revolution and giving a litany of perceived grievances to Cuba over the past 50 years. But he distinguished Obama from past American presidents, saying he respected Obama's move toward reconciliation. ``In my opinion, President Obama in an honest man,'' Castro said through an interpreter. ``I admire him, and I think his behavior has a lot to do with his humble background.''. A U.S. administration official said Castro's long list of grievances was expected, despite the move toward diplomatic ties. '' ( What's ) unique and new is what he said about the president,'' the official said of Castro's praise for Obama. Obama announced in December that he was seeking to renew diplomatic relations with Cuba after half a century of strife, including eventually opening embassies in Washington and Havana. Obama set to test engagement doctrine with Cuba in Panama. His meeting with Castro on Saturday isn't being billed as a formal bilateral session, but Obama's aides are still characterizing the event as the highest-level engagement with the Cuban government since then-Vice President Richard Nixon met with Fidel Castro in 1959. ``We're in new territory here,'' Ben Rhodes, Obama's deputy national security adviser, said Friday. ``The reason we're here is because the President strongly believes that an approach that was focused entirely on isolation, focused entirely on seeking to cut off the Cuban people from the United States of America had failed.''. The overtures to Cuba have not been universally popular in the United States ; some lawmakers were irate that Obama was seeking to engage what they regard as a corrupt government. ``A recommendation to remove Cuba from the list of State Sponsors of Terrorism would represent another significant misstep in a misguided policy,'' Sen. Bob Menendez, a Democrat who used to the chair the Foreign Relations Committee, wrote in a statement last week. In Latin America, however, Obama was receiving a warm welcome after announcing he was seeking to engage Havana in talks over reopening embassies and removing barriers to commerce and travel. 9 things you wanted to ask about the Cuban embargo. He noted to applause during a session Friday that this was the first summit with Cuba in attendance. And he's cast the decision to reopen the U.S. relationship with Cuba as beneficial to the entire hemisphere, which has also embraced his immigration executive action. But even as Obama landed in Panama, the longstanding gulfs between the two countries' governments were on display. Dissidents opposed to Castro's regime were violently accosted this week by supporters of the Cuban government, a scuffle the White House said was unacceptable. ``As we move toward the process of normalization, we'll have our differences, government to government, with Cuba on many issues -- just as we differ at times with other nations within the Americas, just as we differ with our closest allies,'' Obama said at a meeting of civil society leaders Friday. ``There's nothing wrong with that.''. ``But I'm here to say that when we do speak out, we're going to do so because the United States of America does believe, and will always stand for, a certain set of universal values,'' he said. The long history between the U.S. and Cuba. Obama closed out his time in Panama with a news conference where he covered topics ranging from Hillary Clinton's expected presidential announcement to his framework deal with Iran on its nuclear program. The President had pointed criticism for Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona. Earlier this week, McCain accused Secretary of State John Kerry of intentionally mischaracterizing what the sides had agreed to in the Iran nuclear deal. ``John Kerry is delusional,'' McCain said on the Hugh Hewitt show, a conservative talk radio program, adding that the view from the Supreme Leader of Iran of the provisions agreed to ``is probably right,'' rather than what the United States maintains are the agreed provisions. While discussing the Iran agreement Saturday, Obama brought up those remarks without being asked. ``When I hear someone like Sen. McCain recently suggest that our secretary of state, John Kerry, who served in the United States Senate, ( is ) a Vietnam veteran, who's provided exemplary service to this nation, is somehow less trustworthy of the interpretation of what's in a political agreement than the Supreme Leader of Iran, that's an indication of the degree to which partisanship has crossed all boundaries,'' he said at the news conference. After the President's remarks, McCain tweeted ``So Pres. Obama goes to #Panama, meets with Castro and attacks me - I'm sure Raul is pleased.''. As for his 2008 Democratic rival, Obama said, ``If she decides to run, if she makes an announcement, she's going to have some strong messages to deliver,'' he said.
( CNN ) Would a taste of the finest Swiss chocolate make you happy ? Or soaking in the warm Icelandic springs ? Perhaps the great jazz and rock music scene in Denmark is for you ?. It's not just the fun activities that make locals and travelers to those countries happy, according to the third World Happiness Report, released by the Sustainable Development Solutions Network for the United Nations on April 23. People who live in the happiest countries have longer life expectancies and more social support, experience more generosity, have more freedom to make life choices, have lower perceptions of corruption and have a higher gross domestic product per capita, the report shows. The tiny country of Bhutan, a very happy country famous for measuring the ``Gross National Happiness'' of its people, gets the credit for focusing world attention on happiness : Its Prime Minister proposed the idea of a World Happiness Day to the United Nations in 2011. Recognizing ``happiness and well-being as universal goals and aspirations in the lives of human beings around the world,'' the U.N. General Assembly declared March 20 as World Happiness Day in 2012. This officially designated happy date marked its fourth year last month. Through the happiness report, the Sustainable Development Solutions Network hopes to encourage governments at every level to measure and improve their people's happiness. ``There is no single key to happiness,'' said Jeffrey Sachs, the network's director and an economics professor at Columbia University. ``All of these countries do well in several ways. Being rich ? That's good, but it's only a modest part of the story. Trusting society, having a government that ranks on low in corruption, a society where people are generous and volunteering -- all of these are important for happiness.''. Even if you don't live in one of the 10 happiest countries in the world, a visit to these happy places will give you a taste of what the locals enjoy every day. Here are the top 10 happiest places on Earth, according to the World Happiness Report. 1. Switzerland. Switzerland took the top spot from Denmark in 2015, rising from third to first place in this year's list of the world's happiest countries. Bern, the capital city of Switzerland, has the cobblestone streets and medieval architecture that make it apparent why the old city is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Since the city's founding in the 12th century, it has expanded in an often neat and orderly fashion. And the lovely River Aare offers in-town swimming and boating. Looking to get out of the capital city ? Book a trip to Lucerne, where you can take a boat trip on the lake, ride the panorama gondola, take in the views on the new Dragon Ride aerial cableway and ride on the world's steepest cog railway. Book the Golden Round trip and get all four trips -- and stunning views of the Alps -- in one day. ( The railway reopens in mid-May. ). And no matter where you go, there will certainly be plenty of delicious chocolate to try. 2. Iceland. Nature and culture combine to make Iceland a truly happy place, so delightful that the tiny country jumped from ninth to second place this year. Explore South Iceland, where many of the ancient tales -- called sagas -- that document Iceland's 10th - and 11th-century history are remembered. A two-hour drive from the capital city of Reykjavik, south Iceland is home to Vatnajokull Glacier, the 60-meter ( 197-foot ) Skogafoss Waterfall and amazing fresh seafood. ( Though you could probably skip the fermented shark.. ). No matter where you visit, there's probably a geothermal swimming pool or hot spring spa to soak your weary bones after a long day of exploring. And when you get back to the capital, note that the renowned annual Reykjavik Art Festival will take place from May 17 through June 7. 3. Denmark. Never mind that Denmark lost the top spot this year and is now the third-happiest country in the world. Looking at all that Danes have to be happy about, you won't notice the slight dip while you're enjoying jazz at the Copenhagen Jazz Festival in July, hanging out with the hipsters at Queen Louise's Bridge, taking a canal tour or playing beach volleyball in front of the Royal Danish Playhouse. Prefer your music in the woods ? Head to Smuk Fest ( ``The Beautiful Festival'' ), a rock/pop festival in the woods of Skanderborg held in August. Wherever you go, enjoy that Danish tradition of ``hygge,'' sometimes translated too simply as the need for ``coziness.'' It's really a complex sense of intimacy, community and contentment that generally happens with friends and family, and it makes for one happy country. Project Happy : 10 ways to get happy. 4. Norway. The sun never sets in some parts of Norway during the summer months, and the North Cape area is one of the best spots to play when the sun stays out for 24 hours. Visitors love to golf, hike and even run a marathon during the months ruled by the midnight sun. If your taste buds dictate your travels, head to the Norwegian capital city of Oslo, a gastronomic paradise where the Michelin food guide has awarded five stars among four restaurants : Ylajali, Statholdergaarden and Fauna ( one star each ) and Maeemo ( two stars ). 5. Canada. Canada combines European style, sensibility and history with the enormous natural wonder of North America. Within the French-speaking province of Quebec, a tour through the historic city of Old Quebec is a treat for any Francophile. Founded in the early 17th century, it's the only North American city north of Mexico that still has its fortifications. The historic district is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Just a few minutes from downtown Quebec City, Ile d'Orleans is a small island where farming and agriculture are still a way of life. And if nature is what you crave, in less an hour from Québec City, you could be hiking through the Parc national de la Jacques-Cartier, home to the glacial Vallée de la Jacques-Cartier. 50 states, 50 spots to get happy around the U.S. 6. Finland. What a happy event to spot the rare Saimaa ringed seal, which adapted to freshwater living after the Ice Age cut off its lake home from the sea. There are only about 300 of them in the world, and they can be found at Lake Saimaa in eastern Finland. But you might have more luck spotting the white whooper swan, Finland's national bird, whose arrival heralds the start of spring. For a more urban experience, visit Helsinki's Market Square and Museum of Contemporary Art Kiasma. And you can still spot animals in the capital city : In mid-May, the cows will be herded into the fields in Viikki, a neighborhood in Helsinki, after the long winter. Locals always gather to celebrate this moo-ving event. 7. Netherlands ( Holland ). Though the Netherlands' tulips are without equal, and they are most stunning at Keukenhof ( known as the Garden of Europe ), there are so many beautiful spots across the country to walk and bike to welcome spring and its trademark flower. For a more regal celebration, note that the kingdom celebrates its 200th year this year with many festivities. 8. Sweden. In a country that's very fond of celebration, Swedes love to celebrate midsummer, the longest day of the year, most of all. It's a national holiday marked with traditional food and dances around a maypole. Can't make the midsummer parties ? There's still plenty to do. Just 20 minutes from the capital city of Stockholm, the Stockholm Archipelago of about 30,000 islands offers endless opportunities for contentment. Swimming, hiking, cycling, fishing, horseback riding -- it's all within your reach by booking a boat ride. ( Some boat trips include meals and tours of many of the islands. ). 9. New Zealand. New to the top 10 list of happiest countries, New Zealand has plenty of reasons to celebrate. Though it's always been an attractive spot to explore, Peter Jackson choosing the country to host the filming of the ``Lord of the Rings'' movie trilogy has given New Zealand more attention than money could buy. The capital city of Wellington has benefited from the growth of the movie industry, developing a happening restaurant and design scene. And many of the country's natural wonders have gained international attention, including the 2,291-meter ( 7,516-foot ) - high Mount Ngauruhoe, which played the fictional Mount Doom. It's part of Tongariro National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 10. Australia. The Great Barrier Reef, the world's largest collection of coral reefs, is a natural phenomenon not to be missed. Australians are arguing fiercely over manmade threats to its existence ( and no one is happy about that ). Once you've had a chance to explore that magical underwater realm, head to the Australian state of Tasmania, an island 240 kilometers ( 149 miles ) off the mainland coast. The Tasmanian Wilderness, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, includes one of the last surviving temperate rainforests in the world. To see the wilderness up close, try hiking the stunning 65-kilometer ( 40-mile ) Overland Track. It takes about six days for hikers ( who must book the trip in advance ), but day-trippers can take short hikes starting at Cradle Mountain Visitor Centre and Dove Lake.
Charleston, South Carolina ( CNN ) The casket is draped with an American flag, and Walter Scott is dressed in a dark suit. A white banner with a blue star refers to his favorite NFL team. It says : ``Tradition, the Cowboys way.''. A few mourners trickled into the Fielding Home For Funerals in Charleston, South Carolina. Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley comes by to pay his respects and show support for the Scott family. They are not at Friday night's visitation, the mayor says. The stress of the past week since Scott was fatally shot in the back by a North Charleston police Officer Michael Slager is too much. They went by the funeral home earlier but they are exhausted, he says. They need their privacy now and at Saturday's funeral and burial, he says. ``This is a heartbreaking tragedy for everyone in our community,'' he says, adding they share the grief of their neighbors in North Charleston and with the Scott family. ``It breaks everyone's hearts, wherever we live.''. Meanwhile, police continue to investigate the incident in which Scott ran from his car after a traffic stop then was shot while fleeing from Slager. On Friday afternoon, police met with a man who was in Scott's car when Slager pulled it over for a broken taillight. The passenger's name wasn't in a police report obtained by CNN. The passenger was detained briefly after the shooting, one officer wrote in the report. Scott family attorney Chris Stewart said the man with Scott was a co-worker and friend. But he did not identify the friend by name, nor did Thom Berry, a South Carolina Law Enforcement Division spokesman, who confirmed Friday's meeting. Slager has been fired and faces life in prison or the death penalty if convicted on a murder charge. Video shot by a witness shows the officer shooting Scott in the back as he runs away. Slager had told investigators he feared for his safety after he and Scott tussled over his Taser. His lawyer, Andy Savage, said Friday he ``has not received the cooperation from law enforcement that the media has.''. Savage's office said in a written statement that it has yet to receive ``any investigative documents, audio or video tapes, other than a copy of Mr. Slager's arrest warrant.''. The news release added that the lawyer has been advised that the police union that Slager belongs to ``is no longer involved in the case.''. On Thursday, dash cam video and a new witness emerged from the day Scott died. The dash cam footage shows Slager talking calmly to Scott during the traffic stop. Scott apparently says he has no insurance on the vehicle, and Slager returns to his car to do paperwork. Moments later, Scott gets out of his car and bolts. A foot chase ensues. Scott never reappears on the dash cam video, but a witness later takes video of the officer shooting Scott several times in the back as he is running away. ``Nothing in this video demonstrates that the officer's life or the life of another was threatened,'' National Urban League President Marc Morial said. ``The question here is whether the use of force was excessive.''. On Thursday, a new witness emerged in the case. Gwen Nichols told CNN's Brian Todd that she saw a scuffle between Scott and Slager at the entrance to a vacant lot. ``It was like a tussle type of thing, like, you know, like, `What do you want ?' or `What did I do ?' type of thing,'' Nichols said. ``I didn't hear Mr. Slager saying : `Stop !'''. Scott was the subject of a bench warrant over $ 18,104.43 in unpaid child support at the time of the stop, according to court records. That may be why he ran, an attorney for the family said. Criminal defense attorney Paul Callan said he believes Slager's defense will play up the reported scuffle in arguing that this is not a murder case. ``Defense attorneys will say this was a heat of passion shooting -- ( that ) this was something that he did suddenly after some kind of an altercation, a physical altercation with a suspect,'' Callan said. ``And that would constitute manslaughter under law, as opposed to murder, and it makes a huge difference in sentencing.''. In South Carolina, a murder conviction requires a measure of premeditation. What we know about Officer Slager. The investigation has been turned over to the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, or SLED. In a statement released Thursday, SLED said its investigators found troubling inconsistencies from the very start. ``We believed early on that there was something not right about what happened in that encounter,'' SLED Chief Mark Keel said in a statement. ``The cell phone video shot by a bystander confirmed our initial suspicions.''. Feidin Santana, who took the video of the shooting, told CNN's Anderson Cooper that he was walking to work when he saw Slager on top of Scott, who was on the ground. He said he could hear the sound of a Taser in use. Santana said he didn't see Scott go after the Taser, as Slager initially claimed. He said he believes Scott was trying to get away. ``Mr. Scott never tried to fight,'' Santana said. Neither the struggle nor the use of a Taser was captured on video, because Santana started recording shortly after that. His video shows Scott running away from Slager before the officer aims his gun. Slager fires eight shots toward Scott, striking him five times. A timeline of events. While the initial traffic stop may have seemed to be perfectly normal and professional, and the foot chase a reasonable choice, an analyst saw little justification for that last act. ``I'm not familiar with South Carolina police training, but I guarantee you that they do not teach to shoot a fleeing unarmed man in the back,'' said Jim Bueermann, president of the Police Foundation, a Washington-based nonprofit. There are several claims in the initial police reports that are not supported in Santana's video. And there may be more to the investigation than just whether Scott's killing was justified, CNN legal analyst Danny Cevallos said. ``If it's determined that multiple officers attempted to cover for the shooting officer, and it's shown that those reports were false, this will be a devastating blow for law enforcement everywhere,'' he said. Who was Walter Scott ?. CNN's Polo Sandoval reported from Charleston and Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Jim Sciutto, Jason Carroll and Holly Yan contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Much of the world has been stunned by the huge increase of migrant deaths in the Mediterranean this year, increasing the number of deaths at sea by a factor of 30 compared to the same time last year. Almost all the deaths have occurred in the perilous central Mediterranean crossing from Libya to Italy. The flows of migrants across the Mediterranean are unlikely to stop -- Italian authorities estimate that up to 200,000 migrants in Libya are waiting to cross, following 170,000 refugees and migrants who arrived in Italy last year. These flows reflect a significant increase in the number of refugees and internally displaced people across the world, with a total estimate of 51.2 million people. The latest sinking has triggered some action in the European Union, which has unveiled a new ten-point action plan. The plan includes both deterrent mechanisms, such as efforts to capture and destroy vessels being used by smugglers and a rapid return system, but also an expansion of search-and-rescue programs and a proposed new voluntary resettlement scheme, though it is reported that this may only provide 5,000 spaces. But some EU critics called for much tougher action to deter asylum seekers from making the risky journey. In a column published in the UK's Sun newspaper just hours before the sinking, Katie Hopkins declared : ``It's time to get Australian. Bring on the gunships, force migrants back to their shores and burn the boats.''. Since then, Australia's Prime Minister, Tony Abbott, has also suggested that Europe adopt a tougher approach, saying, ``The only way you can stop the deaths is to stop the people smuggling trade. The only way you can stop the deaths is in fact to stop the boats.. That's why it is so urgent that the countries of Europe adopt very strong policies that will end the people smuggling trade across the Mediterranean.''. So what would it mean if the EU did ``get Australian'' in its approach to asylum seekers ? And could Australia's current policy be used as a global solution, or at least one for asylum seekers trying to cross the Mediterranean ?. There were dramatic changes in Australia's immigration policy in 2013, in the final months of the Labor government, led by Kevin Rudd, which have been followed up and taken further by the current Liberal National coalition government, led by Abbott. In 2013, with bipartisan support of those two major parties, mainland Australia was legally ``excised'' from the migration zone. It was done so that anyone arriving without a visa by boat would not be processed in Australia. All people who seek to enter Australia by sea, under the Asylum Legacy Act, are no longer entitled to enter or stay in Australia while their refugee claims are processed. Instead, they can be transported to detention facilities in Papua New Guinea or Nauru. Alternatively, under a recent agreement, they can also agree to move to Cambodia. Beyond this, the Abbott government has also returned some boats to Indonesia without processing asylum seeker claims and, in two instances, to Sri Lanka following a very brief teleconference interview with the asylum seekers on board. That process was widely condemned by human rights advocates, given ongoing human rights abuses in Sri Lanka. That shift in policy under successive Labor and now the Liberal National governments in Australia has been chiefly designed as a deterrent : or, to use Tony Abbott's slogan, to ``stop the boats''. So has it worked ?. First, the numbers. If your sole criteria for success is the number of boats arriving in Australia each year, then ``no advantage'' ( meaning no asylum in Australia ) and ``stop the boats'' ( including the turning back of boats in international waters ) has worked. In 2013, the Australian government reported that 300 boats with approximately 20,000 people on board arrived ; in 2014, there were 0. The current government has argued that its objective was to end the people smuggling trade -- and this required secrecy concerning the extent of its operations and turn-backs. So we do not know how many boats tried to enter Australian waters with asylum seekers. It also appears that no asylum seekers drowned in Australian waters during the 2013-2014 period. Abbott explained the tactic of secrecy and turn-back in the following statement : ``We are in a fierce contest with these people smugglers. And if we were at war, we wouldn't be giving out information that is of use to the enemy just because we might have an idle curiosity about it ourselves.''. If we accept that these responses have worked, the question for Australia's government is whether it is sustainable, and whether it alleviating the flow of asylum seekers in the larger Asia Pacific region. In sum, if this policy had to end due to its financial cost, has this policy been a ``solution'' ?. The later years of the Howard administration saw both policy and budget departures from 2001's ``Pacific Solution,'' which first introduced the excision zones and temporary protection visas as deterrents to asylum seekers. The Rudd government abandoned temporary protection visas altogether but retained the excision zones ; this occurred in a period of heightened regional instability, leading to an increase of asylum seekers under the Rudd era. The earlier Howard years of deterrence did not provide long-term solutions regarding the regional flow of asylum seekers. At present, in the greater South-East Asian region, we may see potential regional pressures finding a way to Australian shores. The drowning of asylum seekers who sought passage via people smugglers appear to have increased, in particular, in the Bay of Bengal. At the same time, the number of asylum seekers attempting to flee within the Asia Pacific region has increased ; they are just not making it to Australia yet. On cost alone, it is hard to see Australia's approach to asylum seekers working or being affordable in Europe. For Australia, these short-term solutions have been extraordinarily expensive. A 2014 report by the Guardian estimated that the Australian government may have spent as much as A$ 10 billion ( $ 7.72 billion ) on its detention policies since mid-2007 -- and that each person in offshore detention costs the government as much as A$ 440,000 ( $ 343,000 ). For comparison, we estimate that a similar model to respond to the 170,000 refugees and migrants who arrived last year in Italy would cost A$ 75 billion ( $ 58.5 billion ). The Australian government's ability to ``stop the boats'' -- or at least keep asylum seekers offshore -- depends on a number of factors, including tolerance from Indonesia, significant spending devoted to asylum deterrence and weathering international condemnation for violating the human rights of asylum seekers. The consequences of a policy of no asylum and no refuge in Australia for those who arrived by boat from July 2013 has been asylum seekers placed in situations where they are vulnerable to abuse, as we saw with the death of an Iranian refugee in the Regional Processing Center on Manus Island and sexual and physical assault of asylum seekers held at the Regional Processing Center in Nauru. The Australian government's interception of asylum seekers attempting to reach Australia by boat, and then their relocation to Nauru or Papua New Guinea ( or perhaps Cambodia ), does not remove or absolve the human rights obligations that Australia has to these populations. The operation to stop and return the boats, called ``Operation Sovereign Borders'' has been politically tumultuous for Australia's relationship with Indonesia. Returning boats to international waters potentially violates Australia's obligation to international maritime law ; push-backs to Indonesian waters violates Indonesia's sovereignty and has placed people at great risk. In 2013 and 2014, the Australian government sought the Sri Lankan government's assistance to intercept those attempting to flee, and receive those who had already fled the country, at a time when that government was under investigation by the UN Human Rights Council for war crimes and crimes against humanity. As the situation in Europe illustrates, just because people are not making it to your shoreline to seek asylum does not mean people stop attempting asylum. In the short term, the ``stop the boats'' approach appears to be working for the Australian government. It is questionable whether this policy is financially or politically sustainable in the long term. It certainly has not ended people smuggling or people's attempts to seek asylum in the wider Asia-Pacific region. Nando Sigona argues that the recent tragedy in Italy is not just about how to manage search and rescue operations, but requires consistent and long-term engagement with the root causes of refugee flows. This is a message that both the European Union and Australia should heed. Italy is a good example of the failure of trying to stop asylum seekers with deterrence. The Italian government ended its Mare Nostrum search and rescue program last autumn, which was effective but was also costing the Italian government $ 9.5 million per month. It was replaced by a much smaller European Union-run program, Operation Triton, which has a smaller patrol area and a budget of less than a third that of Mare Nostrum. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, has noted that this new program is totally inadequate and ``more geared to border control and policing the seas than to saving lives''. In Italy, both Mare Nostrum and Operation Triton were stemming an inevitable tide given the political instability in North Africa. The migrants currently in Libya are in a perilous limbo, with a growing civil war having displaced more than 400,000 Libyans and with Human Rights Watch noting that the conflict and collapse of government authority has ``eliminated any semblance of law and order from large parts of Libya.''. Second, such policies have significant legal implications. The Australian High Court has ruled that these policies are legal as long as they take place outside of Australia's migration zone, an area that today includes all of Australian territory for the purposes of boat arrivals. By contrast, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in 2012 that efforts by the Italian government to return migrants intercepted at sea to Libya violated its legal obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights because the migrants ``were under the continuous and exclusive de jure and de facto control of the Italian authorities.''. This suggests that similar practices to Australia's would be illegal under the European Convention. Copyright 2015 The Conversation. Some rights reserved.
( CNN ) ISIS operatives have executed two groups of prisoners, believed to be Ethiopian Christians, in Libya, according to a video released Sunday by the terror network's media arm. The Ethiopian government confirmed Monday that 30 of its citizens were among the two groups, according to the Ethiopian News Agency. The al-Furqan Media video -- which is highly produced and titled ``Until There Came to Them Clear Evidence'' -- shows two groups of men, one in orange jumpsuits and the other in black, being killed at different locations in Libya, according to the video's narrator. One group is beheaded on a beach along the Mediterranean Sea, while the other group is shot in Southern Libya, hundreds of miles away. ``All praise be to Allah, the Lord and cherisher of the world and may peace and blessings be upon the Prophet Mohammed. To the nation of the cross, we are back again on the sands, where the companions of the Prophet, peace be upon him, have stepped on before, telling you : Muslim blood that was shed under the hands of your religion is not cheap,'' the narrator says in Arabic on the 39-minute video. The narrator continues, ``In fact, their blood is the purest blood because there is a nation behind them ( which ) inherits revenge. And we swear to Allah : the one who disgraced you by our hands, you will not have safety, even in your dreams, until you embrace Islam.''. Quoting Mohammed, the narrator says that those who ``perform prayer and pay alms'' will have ``their blood and property'' protected by the Prophet unless Islam dictates otherwise. ``You pay ( tax ) with willing submission, feeling yourselves subdued. Our battle is a battle between faith and blasphemy, between truth and falsehood, until there is no more polytheism -- and obedience becomes Allah's on its entirety,'' the narrator says. Earlier in the video, a different speaker says Christians in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul were given the choice to embrace Islam or maintain their Christian faith and pay a tax. ``The Islamic state has offered the Christian community this many times and set a deadline for this, but the Christians never cooperated,'' the speaker says. At the beginning of the video, a man who appears to be a judge in a court enforcing Islam's Sharia law holds up documents and says a Syrian Christian had owed a Syrian Muslim 550,000 Syrian pounds ( about $ 2,900 ) since 2004, but the Muslim was unable to obtain the money under President Bashar al-Assad's regime. ``After applying to the Islamic court he got his money back within one month,'' the man says. The law cited throughout the video comes from the Quran's Surah 9:29, whose exact translation is an area of dispute among religious scholars. The gist is that Muslims are commanded to fight those who don't believe in Allah or the Last Day ( Islam's equivalent of Judgment Day ) unless the nonbelievers pay a tax or tribute. In February, ISIS released a video of 21 Coptic Christians from Egypt being executed on a Libyan beach. Those captives, too, wore orange jumpsuits. In that video, released by al-Hayat Media Center, another ISIS media arm, a masked man references the killing of Osama bin Laden and his burial at sea. ``The sea you have hidden Sheikh Osama bin Laden's body in, we swear to Allah, we will mix it with your blood,'' he threatens in English. CNN's Anas Hamdan, Christine Theodorou and Brian Walker contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Several of the world's worst terrorist groups, like ISIS and Al-Shabaab, aim to create societies governed by strict, distorted versions of Sharia law. That means anyone who doesn't subscribe to such extremist views are enemies and in danger -- Christians included. Of course, Christians aren't the only ones who have suffered at the hands of such organizations. For example, most victims of ISIS are fellow Muslims who refuse to go along with the ISIS worldview and ruthless tactics. Still, there's ample evidence that Christians have been targeted. The latest came Friday, when an Italian prosecutor revealed that a network of Pakistanis associated with al Qaeda talked about attacking the Vatican back in March 2010. ``This is.. a reminder about the world we're in right now,'' U.S. Rep. John Delaney, D-Maryland, told CNN on Friday.''.. I do think there's a larger narrative about Christian persecution ( by ) militant groups around the world.''. This attack wasn't carried out, but many others have been. Some acts are not centrally organized but are no less horrific, such as reports that Muslim migrants threw 12 Christians off a boat in the Mediterranean Sea. Other deadly acts and alleged plots have been blamed on established terror groups, including these recent examples :. Sid Ahmed Ghlam asked for an ambulance to come to his Paris home on Sunday after ( he claimed ) he accidentally shot himself in the thigh. Besides getting medical help, Ghlam was arrested after authorities found four Kalashnikov guns, a revolver, ammunition, police armbands and more in his car and residence, Paris Prosecutor Francois Molins said on Wednesday. They also turned up ``documents in Arabic mentioning al Qaeda and ISIS'' and correspondence with someone in Syria ``asking him to target a church.''. Prime Minister Manuel Valls later went to a church in the Paris suburb of Villejuif, one of the at least two such Christian places of worship that Ghlam allegedly targeted. While he didn't elaborate, Molins said that the satellite navigation system in Ghlam's car -- which included a loaded Kalashnikov and more -- had one church's location plugged in. It's not clear what group, if any, Ghlam was working with or possibly getting orders from. Still, authorities flatly characterized him as a terrorist -- linking him to the death of 32-year-old Aurelie Chatelain, whom Molins called the region's first victim of terrorism since the Charlie Hebdo massacre and kosher market siege in January. Regardless of whether Ghlam is ever convicted in Chatelain's killing, it appears unlikely that he'll be able to commit more violence anytime soon. ``A terrorist attack has been foiled,'' French President Francois Hollande said. ISIS has turned its beheadings of hostages into horror shows, producing propaganda videos seemingly aimed at producing the maximum amount of terror. What set the one from April apart were the number of people killed and that they were Christians from Ethiopia. Ethiopia's government said Monday that 30 of its citizens were among two groups of prisoners shown being beheaded in Libya in a video released a day earlier, according to the Ethiopian News Agency. That 39-minute video shows one set of captives killed on a beach along the Mediterranean Sea, while the other group is taken hundreds of miles away, to southern Libya. ``All praise be to Allah, the Lord and cherisher of the world and may peace and blessings be upon the Prophet Mohammed,'' the video's narrator says in Arabic. ``To the nation of the cross, we are back again on the sands, where the companions of the Prophet, peace be upon him, have stepped on before, telling you : Muslim blood that was shed under the hands of your religion is not cheap.''. The same video brazenly claims that ISIS has been merciful to Christians in Iraq -- by giving them the choice of paying a fine if they refuse to convert to Islam. But not all have taken this offer, according to a different speaker. ``The Islamic State has offered the Christian community this many times and set a deadline for this,'' this speaker says, using the name ISIS calls itself. ``But the Christians never cooperated.''. Everyone at Kenya's Garissa University College suffered in some way when a handful of Al-Shabaab gunmen stormed the campus early this month. But death was reserved for Christians. According to AFP, the terrorists separated students by religion -- allowing Muslims to leave and killing Christians. Nightmare accounts soon emerged, like that of Cynthia Cherotich, who told CNN that she he hid in her closet when gunmen burst in and called out two of her roommates. '' ( The attackers ) told them if you don't know to read to them in the Muslim word,.. then you lie down,'' recalled Cherotich, who refused to come out for two days. ``And then, if you know, you go to the other side.''. This tactic of separating non-Muslims from Muslims mirrors what Al-Shabaab attackers did in December at a quarry in the Kenyan village of Kormey, where at least 36 were killed, according to the Kenyan Red Cross. One of Al-Shabaab's explicit aims is to turn Somalia, its home base, into a fundamentalist Islamic state, according to the Council of Foreign Relations. But that's not its only apparent goal, as the group has increasingly branched out -- including into neighboring Kenya, which is 80 % Christian -- to inflict pain and terror. After the the Kenya university attack, which left nearly 150 people dead, Nadif Jama, Garissa's regional governor, dismissed Al-Shabaab's claims that it only kills non-Muslims as ``a tricky way of doing business.''. ``The fallacy and satanic mindset of Al-Shabaab is that, in Somalia, they kill Muslims and Somalis,'' Jama said, claiming the group's militants are ``bent on nothing but destruction.. That is something we need to fight.''. Two suicide blasts rocked a Christian community in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore, killing at least 14 people and wounding scores more, according to officials. And that's just the beginning, pledged the Pakistani Taliban. One of the blasts left behind panicked residents, twisted metal and shattered glass outside a church compound in the Nishtar Colony of Lahore, according to video aired by CNN affiliate GEO News. Afterward, Pakistani Taliban spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan claimed responsibility for the carnage and promised more such attacks until Sharia law is implemented in Pakistan. These blasts recalled one from September 2013, when 81 people died in a suicide bombing at the All Saints of Church of Pakistan in Peshawar. Two attackers burst into the church filled with about 500 people right as services concluded, blowing themselves up, according to the Protestant diocese. Choir members and children attending Sunday school were among the dead. In a subsequent statement, the Rev. Humphrey S. Peter, the bishop of Peshawar, called the attack a ``total failure'' of official efforts to protect minorities such as Christians, who make up less than 3 % of Pakistan's population. Sadly, the shock of the mass killings of the Ethiopian Christians in April may have been dulled simply because of a nearly identical atrocity a few weeks before. ISIS released a five-minute video in February showing the mass murder of Coptic Christians from Egypt. Produced by the Islamic State's propaganda wing al-Hayat Media, the video shows black-clad jihadists standing behind their victims on a Libyan beach. Some of the hostages cry out ``Oh God'' and ``Oh Jesus'' as they are pushed to the ground, just before they take their final breaths. ``The sea you have hidden Sheikh Osama bin Laden's body in, we swear to Allah, we will mix it with your blood,'' a masked man says in English before the beheadings. News of this mass beheading emerged weeks after 21 Egyptian Christians were kidnapped in two incidents in the Libyan coastal city of Sirte. The ISIS video shows the beheading of around a dozen men, though Egyptian officials say all 21 kidnapped Christians were killed. Egypt's government responded with airstrikes on 10 targets used for training and storage in ISIS' Libyan stronghold of Derna, according to Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry. ``Avenging Egyptian blood and punishing criminals and murderers is our right and duty,'' the Egyptian military said in a statement that was broadcast on state television. Modern-day Assyrians are a significant part of human history, tracing their roots back to one of the earliest civilizations. Their ancestors were also some of the first people to embrace Christianity in large numbers. Now the Assyrians are battling ISIS for survival in their native Syria and Iraq. This fight came into focus in February, when the militant group took over villages and took more than 260 Assyrians hostage in northeastern Syria, according to Osama Edward, the founder of the Assyrian Human Rights Network. Edward expressed fears then that these Assyrians in Syria would meet the same fate as others in neighboring Iraq. Some of the Assyrian hostages taken in February have been released, but the fate of many more remains unknown. Even those not in captivity face dire threats, given ISIS's well-established reputation of offering little to no mercy to Christians. The number of Christians in Iraq has plummeted -- from 1.5 million some 20 years ago to some 300,000 today, according to estimates from CAPNI, the largest Christian relief organization in northern Iraq. ISIS isn't the only reason for this drop, but it certainly is a big one. The militant group has been brazen in its onslaught in Iraq as well as Syria, with Christians among its targets. That includes its taking over Iraq's largest Christian city, the mostly Assyrian community of Qaraqosh, in August 2014. ISIS has inflicted pain and suffering well beyond Qaraqosh, though, like its capture and control of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city. The group's advance there prompted Christian families to flee rather than adhere to the ultimatum of converting to Islam, paying a fine or facing ``death by sword.''. Mark Arabo, a Chaldean-American leader and spokesman for the group Ending Genocide in Iraq, claims that Iraqi Christian children have been beheaded, mothers raped and fathers killed by ISIS militants in recent months. ``This is truly a living nightmare that's not going away,'' Arabo told CNN. ``Christianity in Mosul is dead, and a Christian holocaust is in our midst.''
Cairo ( CNN ) Mohamed Morsy went from prison to the presidency. And now he's going back to prison. The ousted President was convicted on charges of violence and inciting violence and sentenced to 20 years in prison for the torture of protesters outside the presidential palace in December 2012. But he was acquitted of murder in the deaths of protesters. He stood trial with 14 co-defendants, including some of his presidential staff. All 14 co-defendants were also convicted of violence and inciting violence, and all were also acquitted of murder. Morsy, who became Egypt's first democratically elected President in June 2012, was deposed by a popularly backed military coup in July 2013. After the sentencing, his Freedom and Justice Party called the trial a ``travesty of justice.''. ``This is a sad and terrible day in Egyptian history,'' the party said in a statement Tuesday. ``Coup leaders have sentenced Mohamed Morsi to decades in prison for nothing more than championing the democratic will of the people.''. But Ramy Ghanem, a civil plaintiff lawyer representing one of the torture victims, said the conviction was fair. ``This is a very appropriate and clear verdict on people that committed the crime,'' he said. ``This, in fact, was the maximum sentence for the charges. The surprise was the acquittal.''. Hoda Nasrallah, a lawyer representing two torture victims, called the outcome of the case typical for Egypt. ``All the cases involving big gatherings and demonstrations in which protesters were killed usually see the culprits walk free. This case is a manifestation of this,'' she said. ``The public will always see the verdicts as politicized because there is no regime put on trial before falling, so everyone sees it as settling scores. It's not about Morsy only, but it also applies to ( former Egyptian President Hosni ) Mubarak and others. This is the status quo in Egypt. We wish we could see the trial of a regime when it is in power, not after that.''. Nasrallah called for a ``fair trial,'' criticizing the fact that seven men killed during the December 2012 clashes were not included in this case, because they were affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood, and that the involvement of other sides, including police, wasn't investigated. Morsy can appeal his conviction. But Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Mohamed Montasser has already issued an ominous warning on Twitter :. ``Sentencing the president won't pass,'' he said. ``The revolution will be ignited, popular anger will increase and we promise you unexpected revolutionary surprises.''. At various points in the trial, Morsy said that he was still the President of Egypt and refused to recognize the court as legal. Attorney Mohamed Selim El-Awa cited constitutional articles to the court that stipulated the steps for removing a president and putting him on trial -- something that required the approval of two-thirds of the parliament and a special court made of the country's top judges. A judge on Tuesday rejected the argument presented by El-Awa and court-appointed lawyer El-Sayed Hamed that the court had no jurisdiction. Hamed was appointed by the court after Morsy's defense team withdrew. He told CNN he met with Morsy about three times over the past 16 months. He praised the ``neutrality of the court,'' rebuffing accusations of politicization. ``Before the case reached the court, it was dominated by politics more than the law, and I said this in my argument at the court. But by reaching the court, the court examined the documents from the legal aspect and saw that they were innocent of accusations of murder and guilty of other charges. Consequently, we will appeal this sentence,'' he told CNN. Early in the trial, Morsy and his co-defendants were held in a metal cage in court. Later, that cage was enclosed in soundproof glass. This is the first trial Morsy was referred to after his removal from power. He is also standing trial in three other cases, including two on charges of espionage. The third trial involves a 2011 jailbreak. Morsy and 18 other members of the banned Muslim Brotherhood allegedly broke out of the Wadi-Natroun prison, Egyptian state-run media reported. In that trial, Morsy and his 130 co-defendants, who include 71 Palestinians tried in absentia, are accused of collaborating with the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas and the Lebanese Shia group Hezbollah to break into several prisons across Egypt in January 2011 and facilitating the escape of Morsy and 20,000 others. In May, Morsy is scheduled to start a fifth trial -- this one on charges of insulting the judiciary. Sarah Sirgany reported from Cairo ; Holly Yan wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Bharati Naik contributed to this report.
Cairo ( CNN ) An Egyptian court has sentenced 71 people to life in prison for their role in the August 2013 burning of a Christian church in the Giza province village of Kafr Hakim, state news reports. The Virgin Mary Church was torched and looted by a mob, some of whom chanted against Coptic Christians and called for Egypt to become an ``Islamic state,'' one of at least 42 churches and many more businesses and homes targeted that August, the advocacy group Human Rights Watch reports. Others attacked included St. George Church in Sohag, a city south of Cairo on the Nile River, and Prince Tadros Church in Fayoum, which is southwest of Cairo, according to reports. In addition to those getting life sentences, two minors were sentenced to 10 years in prison and fined 10,000 Egyptian pounds ( about $ 1,300 ), Egypt's official Egynews reported. Most of those sentenced -- 52 of the 73 defendants -- were tried in absentia, with 21 already in prison, according to Egynews. Some blamed the church and other attacks on supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist movement that backed Mohamed Morsy. Morsy became Egypt's first democratically elected president following the ouster of longtime leader Hosni Mubarak. Morsy was pushed out by Egypt's military. Morsy was sentenced to 20 years in prison earlier this month after being convicted on charges related to violence outside the presidential palace in December 2012. But he was acquitted of murder in the deaths of protesters. Christian churches across Egypt stormed, torched. Journalist Sarah Sirgany reported from Cairo and CNN's Greg Botelho reported and wrote this story from Atlanta.
( CNN ) More than 22 months ago, the body of Odin Lloyd was found in an industrial park in North Attleboro, Massachusetts. Lloyd had been shot seven times near a pile of construction waste. The semipro football player for the Boston Bandits was 27. Days after he was found dead, then-NFL star Aaron Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder. Testimony in the case against Hernandez began in January. On Wednesday, a Fall River, Massachusetts, jury -- after deliberating 35 hours over the course of seven days -- found the former New England patriots tight end guilty of first-degree murder, which carries a penalty of life without parole, as well as unlawful possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition. Hernandez also faces murder charges in a 2012 double homicide. He has pleaded not guilty. Just two years ago, he was one of the NFL's most promising tight ends, inking a $ 40-million contract extension with the New England Patriots. Friends and fans alike wondered : How could the star player who had more than 900 receiving yards in 2011 now be on trial for murder ?. Long before Hernandez made national headlines, he was a standout athlete in Bristol, Connecticut, who came from a family described as a local sports dynasty. ``I don't think there was another family that was more familiar in Bristol,'' Bob Montgomery, who covers high school sports for the Bristol Press, told CNN. The young Hernandez was the ``golden boy,'' playing football, basketball and running track, following in the footsteps of his uncle, older brother and father -- all well-known athletes in the community. Hernandez's father constantly pushed his son, requiring him to practice for hours before he could go out with friends. ``I saw a closeness with them that I'd never seen before,'' Montgomery said of the relationship between Hernandez and his father. But his father, the man who kept the 16-year-old anchored, died from complications after a routine surgery. Hernandez left high school halfway through his senior year in January 2007 to join the University of Florida Gators, and trouble seemed to follow. In just his first semester, a police report says, Hernandez got into a fight at an off-campus restaurant, sucker-punching the manager and rupturing his eardrum. The following fall, there was a shooting near a local club. Police reports linked Hernandez and several other University of Florida football players to an argument in the parking lot. Hernandez was one of more than 20 people interviewed by police, and he was the only one who did not make a statement after invoking his right to counsel. At the time, Hernandez's mother told the Orlando Sentinel newspaper, ``I know he was at the club, but he never saw any shooting.''. The case remains open, and no one has been charged. Hernandez was also suspended at least once for marijuana, an issue that would follow him as he entered the draft his junior year. Trying to put the alleged drug use behind him, Hernandez wrote a letter to the Patriots director of personnel. ``If you draft me as a member of the New England Patriots, I will willfully submit to a biweekly drug test throughout my rookie season.. In addition, I will tie any guaranteed portion of my 2010 compensation to these drug tests and reimburse the team a pro-rata amount for any failed drug test,'' he wrote, according to the Boston Globe. Before the draft, Hernandez was expected to be a first - or second-round pick. He was passed over until the fourth round, when the Patriots selected him. By the end of his second season, he was a bona fide star, landing the $ 40 million contract extension. Less than a year after signing the deal, however, the Patriots dropped him on the day he was charged with Lloyd's murder. When Odin Lloyd pulled up in a black Chevrolet suburban, Boston Bandits coach Mike Branch thought something was out of place. Lloyd didn't own a car. Aaron Hernandez case : Who's who ?. Branch had his suspicions, but he couldn't get answers. Lloyd was too busy telling his friends about the good time he had at the club the previous night. ``He said he was at the club with Mr. Hernandez, and that they were partying and he had a good time, and that Mr. Hernandez spent a good amount of money,'' Branch recalled. Lloyd said Hernandez spent about $ 10,000 that night. Lloyd's friends say he wasn't a big partier. He was more passionate about football and family. Remembering Odin Lloyd. Lloyd was dating Shaneah Jenkins, the link between the young man who dreamed of the NFL and the all-American who made it. Jenkins is the younger sister of Shayanna, who's engaged to Hernandez and is the mother of his little girl. On June 16, 2013, Lloyd was riding with friends in the black Suburban, which police later learned was rented by Hernandez. Daryl Hodge was with Lloyd when he said Lloyd got a text from Hernandez, asking to hang out later that night. As they parted ways, Lloyd told Hodge he'd see him later. The next day, Lloyd's body was found. Prosecutors say Lloyd was last seen with Hernandez and Hernandez's two associates, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, around 2:30 a.m. in a rented silver Nissan Altima. Surveillance video from security cameras at an industrial park showed an Altima heading toward a secluded area at 3:22 a.m.. At the same time, chilling text messages from Lloyd's phone were sent to his sister telling her he was with ``Nfl,'' adding, ``just so u know.''. Between 3:23 and 3:27 a.m., workers nearby reported hearing gunshots. At 3:29, a camera showed an Altima pulling into Hernandez's driveway, about a half a mile from the death scene. Three people got out of the car, and Lloyd was not one of them. Nine days later, Hernandez was arrested and charged with first-degree murder and other weapons-related charges. He pleaded not guilty. In April 2014, Ortiz and Wallace were also charged in Lloyd's slaying. They, too, pleaded not guilty. Prosecutors say the three men were to be tried in a joint venture, a legal term that means it's not necessary to prove who pulled the trigger as long as there is evidence that each defendant actively participated in Lloyd's murder. As the trial for the death of Lloyd neared, lawyers began arguing about evidence, including cell phones and text messages. Some rulings were victories for the defense. The jury wouldn't see the text Lloyd sent to his sister, telling her he was with ``Nfl.'' The judge ruled it hearsay and said the state hadn't proven Lloyd believed his life was in danger. Jurors also didn't hear anything about what happened in Boston on July 16, 2012 -- the night two men were murdered outside a club where Hernandez had been. The judge agreed with defense lawyers that it's far too prejudicial and irrelevant to Lloyd's murder. Investigators allege Hernandez shot and killed Daniel Abreu and Safiro Furtado because one of the men bumped into him on a nightclub dance floor and spilled his drink. District Attorney Patrick Haggan described the scene in a Massachusetts courtroom in May, saying Hernandez became ``angered and increasingly agitated, particularly after Mr. Abreu smiled and did not apologize.''. Prosecutors : Bump, spilled drink led to double homicide. Hernandez's friend tried to calm him down, and the pair walked outside and eventually entered a second club across the street, the prosecutor said. Court documents identify that friend as Alexander Bradley, who would go on to accuse Hernandez of shooting him in the eye in an incident that would take place seven months later. After leaving the second nightclub, Hernandez and the friend returned to their SUV and pulled over on a nearby street where Hernandez removed a revolver from the engine block, Haggan said. Hernandez began trailing Abreu, Furtado and three of their friends in his SUV, authorities said. He then pulled up to the victims' car at a red light and leaned out the driver's side window with a loaded revolver, Haggan told the court. Hernandez allegedly said, ``Yo, what's up now,'' followed by a racial slur, and fired at least five rounds from a.38 - caliber revolver, Haggan said. Abreu, the driver, was shot several times and fatally hit in the chest. Furtado was sitting in the front passenger seat and suffered multiple gunshot wounds, including one to the head, Haggan said. Hernandez was charged in the double homicide in May, and he pleaded not guilty. Investigators found evidence they believe links him to the 2012 slayings while investigating the death of Lloyd. CNN's Laura Dolan, Kristi Ramsay and Michelle Rozsa contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Working as a warden in Rwanda's Volcanoes National Park, home to the endangered mountain gorilla, Edwin Sabuhoro was determined to do whatever was necessary to protect the animals he was committed to defend -- including putting himself in harm's way. Following a series of incidents in 2004 where wildlife had been lost, Sabuhoro volunteered to infiltrate poachers on their own turf by disguising as a potential buyer for a baby gorilla. The mission was successful and the culprits were put to prison. ``I felt so bad that I had put these people in jail -- but I felt so good that I saved a baby gorilla,'' recalls Sabuhoro, whose next move was to visit the jailed poachers, as well as their families, to apologize for tricking them and find the reasons behind their actions. What he heard was stories of starvation and desperation. Poaching, he found, was the only way for these people to survive. ``That's when I decided that what I was doing was not part of giving a solution to what is wanted outside the park,'' says Sabuhoro. He quickly decided to quit the job and come up with an idea to help poachers make a living -- a plan that didn't include killing wildlife. ``I thought of an idea of turning poachers to farmers,'' says Sabuhoro, who took all of his savings -- $ 2,000 -- and divided it to poachers to rent land, buy seeds and start farming. ``I left them with that and they started farming, and when I came back six months after I found they had harvested enough -- they had enough food at home, but they were -LSB- also -RSB- selling more in the markets.''. But Sabuhoro wasn't finished. While talking to tourists who came to visit the volcanoes, Sabuhoro came up with an idea to capitalize on their interest in the area, and provide work for former poachers. ``I started a tour company called Rwanda Eco Tours, and I said for tourism to thrive in the country we need eco-tourism where tourists can give back to the community and then the communities will have an incentive to conserve the park. So we built a cultural village in 2006 -- before we finished, we had tourists visiting us.'' he says. ``In 2010, we got $ 30,000 net income from the cultural village and put this back to different activities in the village level.''. Sabuhoro, whose work with the cultural village has received international recognition, including a chance to briefly meet U.S. president Barack Obama as a Young African Leader, is now trying to take his idea further to other national parks across Africa where poaching is causing similar problems. ``If we can work together, on a regional level, continent level, we can save these species,'' he says. ``Because these are the last species that we have. And as human beings we can't afford to fail the wildlife.''. Watch this : Meeting the men who poach Rwanda's gorillas. Watch this : Flourishing community protects gorillas. More from African Voices.
( CNN ) It's one of the most famous faces in history, even though no one really knows what he looked like. Instead, every culture, every generation, remakes Jesus in its own image. A blonde-haired, blue-eyed savior when America was mostly Anglo-Protestant, at least in Hollywood's eyes. An androgynous, meek-and-mild messiah during the anything-goes 1970s. A studly action-figure hero after the attacks of September 11, 2001. Flip through the gallery above, and you'll see what I mean. If you turned on the television this past Sunday, though, a new vision of Jesus came into view. Darker, in mood and skin tone. Earthy rather than ethereal. If not following all of history's clues -- Hollywood has yet to cast an actual Jew as Jesus -- then at least inching closer. Flipping through the channels on a day millions of Western Christians celebrated the resurrection of their savior, viewers could choose from ``Killing Jesus,'' a NatGeo production rebroadcast Sunday on Fox. ``A.D.,'' NBC's sequel to the blockbuster miniseries ``The Bible,'' and ``Finding Jesus,'' CNN's addition to the ever-burgeoning body of Christ-centered TV fare. Does God have a prayer in Hollywood ?. What unites these disparate projects, besides a recognition that Jesus always draws an audience and the Good Book is good for business, is the type of men chosen to play Christ. They are brawny, with brown eyes and dark complexions. They look like men who could be carpenters, if not in Nazareth, than at least in the Mediterranean neighborhood. Haaz Sleiman, from ``Killing Jesus,'' was born and raised in Lebanon. He's also Muslim, a fact that annoyed some Christians, who took to Twitter to voice their displeasure. Adam Bond, a British actor of mixed heritage, including Native American, portrays Jesus during the historical reenactments in ``Finding Jesus.''. And Juan Pablo Di Pace -- a Argentinian named after the late St. Pope John Paul II -- takes a starring role in ``A.D.,'' replacing Diogo Morgado, dubbed ``hot Jesus,'' by some, ``smarmy Jesus'' by others. You could make the case that authenticity is the coin of our current entertainment realm, and that filmmakers are competing to make their work as historically accurate as possible. Contemporary viewers are too savvy to stomach the fake beards and odd accents that littered the camels-and-sandals epics of eras past. But there's another, deeper meaning behind our new, multicultural Jesuses, scholars say. ``Filmmakers and networks are in touch with the fact that the complexion of America has changed,'' said Stephenson Humphries-Brooks, a religion scholar and author of ``Cinematic Savior : Hollywood's Making of the American Christ.''. ``A large number of Americans are people of color : Latinos and Middle Easterners and people from India,'' Humphries-Books continued. ``That means the audience base is shifting in various and important ways.''. The audience base may be shifting, but it's also tuning in. Each of the Jesus shows drew big ratings, which means you'll likely be seeing more of Christ as you channel surf. But according to the Apostle Paul, almost every depiction of Jesus so far has gotten at least one detail wrong : his flowing locks. Real men don't wear long hair, said the New Testament scribe.
( CNN ) Ever had a headache so big, you felt like drilling a hole in your head to let the pain out ?. In Neolithic times trepanation -- or drilling a hole into the skull -- was thought to be a cure for everything from epilepsy to migraines. It could even have been a form of emergency surgery for battle wounds. But while there is still conjecture about the real reasons behind the mysterious procedure, what is known is that the implement often used to carry out the primitive surgery was made from one of the sharpest substances found in nature -- obsidian. Obsidian -- a type of volcanic glass -- can produce cutting edges many times finer than even the best steel scalpels. At 30 angstroms -- a unit of measurement equal to one hundred millionth of a centimeter -- an obsidian scalpel can rival diamond in the fineness of its edge. When you consider that most household razor blades are 300-600 angstroms, obsidian can still cut it with the sharpest materials nano-technology can produce. Even today, a small number of surgeons are using an ancient technology to carry out fine incisions that they say heal with minimal scarring. Dr. Lee Green, professor and chair of the Department of Family Medicine at the University of Alberta, says he routinely uses obsidian blades. ``The biggest advantage with obsidian is that it is the sharpest edge there is, it causes very little trauma to tissue, it heals faster and more importantly it heals with less scarring,'' he said. ``It makes for the best cosmetic outcome.''. He explained that steel scalpels at a microscopic level have a rough cutting edge that tears into tissue, a function of the crystals that make up the metal. Obsidian, meanwhile, cleaves into a fine and continuous edge when properly cut. Dr. Green said he once helped documentary makers produce a program on surgical technology in ancient Egyptian, setting up a blind test on the cutting power of obsidian. Using cultured-skin burn dressing, a substance composed of skin cells, he made an incision with a modern scalpel and a parallel incision with an obsidian scalpel. The host of the program was then invited to look at the cuts under a video microscope and tell the difference. ``It wasn't hard to tell the difference at all -- as soon as he turned around everyone in the studio was like `Ohhh','' Dr. Green said. ``Under the microscope you could see the obsidian scalpel had divided individual cells in half, and next to it the steel scalpel incision looked like it had been made by a chainsaw.''. Modern obsidian scalpels look nothing like the decorative flint-knapped knives of Neolithic man, often resembling their modern counterparts in everything except for the blade edge, but Dr. Green said they are a very different animal. ``The feel is very different because obsidian has no `bite,''' he said. ``If you look under the microscope at a steel scalpel edge it looks almost like a saw, it has teeth, whereas obsidian is smooth even microscopically. ``It's a very different feel to work with and you have to practice before you start using it in surgery. ``You also have to be careful not to nick yourself with it because you don't even feel it !''. And Dr. Green believes incisions made with these blades heal faster. He said a colleague who needed a mole removed agreed to undergo an experiment where half the procedure was carried out with an obsidian scalpel and the other half was removed with steel. ``What's really fun is seeing it heal,'' he said. ``Four weeks later the difference was quite remarkable -- there was very much a difference in scarring.''. In Germany, the manufacturer Fine Science Tools produces obsidian scalpels which can be used in situations where the patient may have an allergy to steel or metal. ``For studies where trace metals from ordinary scalpel blades can not be tolerated, these very special obsidian scalpels may provide the answer,'' the company says. At $ 99 per scalpel ( $ 107.40 ), they represent a considerable saving on their diamond cousins which the company prices at $ 712.50 ( $ 772.60 ). But there has been little academic research into the efficacy of obsidian blades compared to steel scalpels, and they do have disadvantages : Obsidian scalpels are not Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) approved, and they are extremely brittle and prone to breaking if lateral forces are applied -- meaning they are unlikely to ever be in widespread use. Dr. Green, whose scalpels were manufactured for him by an expert flint-knapper and archaeologist Errett Callahan, concedes the Stone Age scalpels are not for everyone. ``If it was let loose on the market there'd be far too many injuries from it,'' he said. ``It's very fragile and it's very easy to break pieces off.''
( CNN ) Like phone booths and typewriters, record stores are a vanishing breed -- another victim of the digital age. Camelot Music. Virgin Megastores. Wherehouse Music. Tower Records. All of them gone. Corporate America has largely abandoned brick-and-mortar music retailing to a scattering of independent stores, many of them in scruffy urban neighborhoods. And that's not necessarily a bad thing. Yes, it's harder in the Spotify era to find a place to go buy physical music. But many of the remaining record stores are succeeding -- even thriving -- by catering to a passionate core of customers and collectors. On Saturday, hundreds of music retailers will hold events to commemorate Record Store Day, an annual celebration of, well, your neighborhood record store. Many stores will host live performances, drawings, book signings, special sales of rare or autographed vinyl and other happenings. Some will even serve beer. To their diehard customers, these places are more than mere stores : They are cultural institutions that celebrate music history ( the entire Duran Duran oeuvre, all in one place ! ), display artifacts ( Aretha Franklin on vinyl ! ), and nurture the local music scene ( hey, here's a CD by your brother's metal band ! ). They also employ knowledgeable clerks who will be happy to debate the relative merits of ``Blood on the Tracks'' and ``Blonde on Blonde.''. Or maybe, like Jack Black in ``High Fidelity,'' just mock your lousy taste in music. So if you're a music geek, drop by. But you might think twice before asking if they stock ``I Just Called to Say I Love You.''
( CNN ) As art, film stills are often overlooked. The photographers tend to be anonymous ; it's easy to imagine their work done by the director or cinematographer. Their images are often lumped in with the promotional machinery : Whether documenting the stars frolicking on set or getting down to business, it's just another form of salesmanship. Which is why the work of Ernst Haas is so striking. Haas, one of the 20th century's great photojournalists and image-makers -- an early member of the great Magnum Photos cooperative who was famous enough in his prime to have been the subject of a Museum of Modern Art exhibit in 1962 -- was also a regular on movie sets. It was a necessity in those early days, said John Jacob, the editor of a new book of Haas' movie photography, ``Ernst Haas : On Set.''. ``Working on film sets was really important to Magnum, and all of the photographers working with Magnum in the'50s did films,'' says Jacob, now the McEvoy Family Curator for Photography at the Smithsonian American Art Museum. Not only did the work pay off financially, but the photographers also established relationships with members of the industry, he said. And the stars and directors knew what they were getting : some of the best in the field. Photographers such as Haas were entrusted to bring their talent and style to the work. The photographers ``are definitely producing work for posterity, that very much has their own fingerprint on it,'' Jacob said. Such distinction is obvious from looking at Haas' work -- some of which is as famous as the movies he worked on. There's a striking picture of Orson Welles in 1949's ``The Third Man,'' hemmed in by the darkness in a way that suggests the shadowy themes of the classic film. Another, of Gregory Peck and Chuck Connors in 1958's ``The Big Country,'' is as dramatic as any full-scale movie duel. ( Westerns were a specialty. ). But Haas also has a way of documenting the artificiality of film work, whether it's capturing the sprawling, workaday set of 1965's ``The Greatest Story Ever Told'' or snapping a relaxed picture of Barbara Streisand as Dolly Levi in 1969's ``Hello, Dolly !''. Social media. Follow @CNNPhotos on Twitter to join the conversation about photography. The former is particularly interesting : an image of actors splayed on crosses for the crucifixion scene, surrounded by ladders, a camera crane, a painted scrim and several casually dressed crew members. Jacob observes that in each of Haas' images there's an eye for the unusual. The black-and-white work from ``The Greatest Story Ever Told,'' for example, is almost prayerful, while the color images call attention to the artificiality of film. And some of Haas' other color images, especially his work for 1961's ``West Side Story,'' fit in neatly with others in his catalog, as Haas was known for an impressionistic blur of hues that Jacob calls ``the Haas effect.''. Haas died in 1986, and despite being celebrated during his life, his name is somewhat forgotten these days. Jacob hopes that ``Ernst Haas : On Set'' reminds people just what a master he was. ``A lot of these are familiar images, but you don't necessarily associate them with Haas,'' he said. ``On the other hand, people who know Haas well don't actually know this work, because it was work for hire and wasn't ever put together in this way before.''. Ernst Haas was an Austrian photographer who passed away in 1986. He was a member of Magnum Photos.
( CNN ) An Oklahoma reserve sheriff's deputy accused of fatally shooting a man he says he meant to subdue with a Taser pleaded not guilty Tuesday to a charge of second-degree manslaughter. At the hearing, the judge granted Robert Bates permission to go to the Bahamas for a family vacation. That decision prompted a response from the family of Eric Harris, the man Bates killed. ``We are not surprised that Mr. Bates pled not guilty. We are, however, surprised that Mr. Bates would choose to go on a vacation to the Bahamas during this tumultuous time. Whether intended or not, Mr. Bates' vacationing in the Bahamas at this time sends a message of apathy with respect to the shooting and Eric's life. At a time when we are still mourning the death of a loved one that he shot down in the street, Mr. Bates will be relaxing and enjoying his wealth and privilege.''. Bates' preliminary hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. July 2. ``This will give us an opportunity to deal with the facts in the courtroom instead of the media and we're looking very much forward to that,'' said Clark Brewster, one of his lawyers, after the hearing. Bates, 73, was working as a reserve deputy for the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office on April 2 when he was involved the arrest of Eric Harris in a weapons sting operation. Bates claims he meant to stun Harris with a Taser after Harris fled from officers, but mistakenly shot Harris with a gun instead. Bates has said the shooting was accidental. He has apologized to the Harris family, as has Sheriff Stanley Glanz. The lawyer for the family of the man who was killed claims that Bates wasn't qualified to be on the force, but received preferential treatment because he'd made donations to the agency and was a friend of the sheriff. The Tulsa World newspaper reported some supervisors in the Tulsa County Sheriff's Office were told to forge Bates' records and were reassigned when they refused. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office has denied these allegations. Over the weekend, one of Bates' lawyers released most of his training documents and said they prove Bates had proper law enforcement training. Two deputies involved in arrest of Harris have been reassigned because of threats against them and their families, Glanz said Monday in a news conference. Lawyer releases training records for Tulsa deputy charged in killing. CNN's Jason Morris and Ed Lavandera contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Just eight months ago, a young woman named Fatu Kekula was single-handedly trying to save her Ebola-stricken family, donning trash bags to protect herself against the deadly virus. Today, because of a CNN story and the generosity of donors from around the world, Kekula wears scrubs bearing the emblem of the Emory University Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing in Atlanta, where she's learning skills she can take back home to care for her fellow Liberians. ``It's a surprise -- a young child like me who came from a very poor background coming to the U.S.,'' she said. ``I'm thankful to CNN and I appreciate the people who made donations, and I'm thankful to Emory for accepting me to study.''. At Emory, Kekula has asked for special training on certain skills, such as caring for burns, a common type of injury because children in Liberia sometimes fall into the open fires used for cooking. One of her instructors, Kelly Fullwood, said Kekula's an excellent student who has taught her teachers a thing or two about how to do procedures without costly equipment, as she's been forced to do in Liberia. ``She fascinates me every day,'' Fullwood said. ``She gets nursing. She gets what it's about.''. Kekula, 23, was just a year away from finishing up her nursing degree in Liberia when Ebola struck and her mother, father, sister and cousin came down with the disease. Hospitals were full and no doctors would visit her home, so with just advice from a physician on the phone, Kekula took care of all four of her relatives at the same time. All but her cousin survived -- a high success rate considering that at the time, about 70 % of Ebola patients were dying in Liberia. Kekula couldn't continue her nursing education in Liberia, because the schools had closed. A CNN story about Kekula in September prompted donations from around the world to IAM, an organization that raises money to help African natives pay for education. David Smith, an associate dean at Emory's nursing school, said they accepted Kekula because they were struck by how both she and Emory each treated four Ebola patients at around the same time last year -- and Emory had dozens of doctors and nurses and millions of dollars in technology while Kekula had nobody and nearly no supplies. Stop Ebola where it starts. ``It was obvious to us that this woman was intelligent and strong and fearless,'' he said. Kekula is scheduled to return to Liberia in August. ``These things that I have learned here I am going to take back to my fellow nurses,'' she said. ``I love to care for people. I love to save lives.''. Extraordinary people.
Caledonia, Michigan ( CNN ) Ben and Shelby Offrink met in college. It wasn't the most romantic setting -- a study group for calculus-based physics -- but Ben managed to turn it into a story worth telling by cheating. ``I set up a study group and ended up telling the other people not to come so it would be just the two of us,'' said Ben with a smile. ``He was sneaky,'' says Shelby. ``Yeah, I wanted to meet her,'' says Ben, ``and that was the best way I could figure out.''. Fast-forward eight years to 2014. Ben, now 34, and Shelby, a newly minted 30-year-old, were married and raising little Maeve, 3, and baby Hazel, 3 months, in Caledonia, Michigan, when life suddenly turns upside down. ``I thought it was sciatica,'' Shelby says of the back pain and the ``odd'' feeling that prompted her to go to the hospital. ``But I couldn't get the doctors in the ER to pay attention. So I went back the next day and told them that I was incontinent, and they did an MRI and there it was.''. ``It'' turned out to be an intramedullary glioblastoma, a highly aggressive form of brain cancer. Shelby's version was extremely rare because it was lodged in her spine instead of her brain. ``So it's actually tangled into the spinal cord itself,'' Ben explains. ``If you'd imagine a meatball inside of bunch of spaghetti, you can't just easily take it out without damaging a bunch of the spinal cord itself.''. Surgery removed 75 %. The rest was treated with a combination of oral chemo and radiation. But suddenly a second spot above the first grew worse and the area of radiation had to be broadened. After a week of treatment, Shelby suddenly lost feeling in her legs. Unfortunately, the numbness became permanent. Before long, Shelby was paralyzed from the belly button down. But that didn't stop her fighting spirit or her sense of humor. Shelby nicknamed her tumors and decided to ``terminate'' them. ``You pronounce it as `tumah tumah-nator,''' Ben says. ``Like how Arnold Schwarzenegger would say it if he had a tumor.''. As Shelby continued to fight and improve, in August 2014, Ben got some terrible news. The Hodgkins lymphoma he had fought and battled into remission when he was 20 had reappeared. And it probably had been hiding in his body for a few years, making it extremely hard to overcome. ``I thought it was never a concern again,'' Ben says. ``The procedures I went through, having a bone marrow transplant, I thought there wouldn't be any issues. It's been over 15 years. It caught everyone completely off guard.''. Ben was slated for a clinical trial with an experimental drug, but his alkaline phosphate levels were too high to meet the requirements. With no other options in the Grand Rapids, Ann Arbor or Detroit areas, he is now on generalized chemotherapy, hoping it will force the cancer into remission so he can undergo a bone marrow transplant. Two donors have been found that are a perfect match, if the cancer will respond. ``As it goes on, they are saying it's getting harder and harder to treat,'' he says. ``It's just like a car picking up speed. Eventually you're going to have 5 million cells, it's just going to keep growing and growing.''. Suddenly, both parents were undergoing the nausea, fatigue and discomfort of chemotherapy while trying to raise two small children. ``Some days it does feel like a battle,'' Ben admits. ``The days you are feeling absolutely horrible you don't even want to get out of bed, but you know you have to because you have to take care of the girls or help Shelby. Some days it's just way tougher than others.''. Friends and family became critical to the family's success, taking over updates to the family's online journal, and running fundraisers for medical expenses and building supplies to make the house wheelchair-friendly. ``We'd had an amazing support group,'' Ben says. ``Shelby has friends from high school who will drop everything to help us out at a moment's notice. And the community, it's just amazing for people to help that much.''. ``Even outside of our community, people we don't even know,'' adds Shelby, wiping a tear from her eye. ``We've had care packages sent from Ireland, Sweden and Australia. It means a lot.''. This January came the worst news yet. Shelby's cancer, which had retreated from her spine, suddenly appeared in her brain. Three tumors. Inoperable. What is Shelby's reaction ?. ``I'm not giving up,'' she says. ``Ben and I have a long road ahead of us. We know it's going to be hard, but we're going to do it.''. ``For me it's just something that you have to do,'' Ben says. ``You have to fight it and you have to beat it because there is no option.''. Maeve, who is 4 years old now, and Hazel, 1, will have a home with Ben's brother if the worst is to happen, and friends are setting up fundraisers for the girls' education. But that's not the focus of Ben and Shelby's fight. They want to get well. ``Yeah, we have two little ladies we have to take care of,'' Shelby says, ``and lots of family and friends that care about us.''. ``She's not just doing it for herself, she's doing it for her whole family, especially her girls and her husband, Ben,'' said Jay Tomczak, Shelby's older brother. ``She's not going to ever give up. What we really need is hope.''. The Offrinks would like help finding clinical trials to address the rare cancers they are fighting, as well as access to cancer centers with more advanced techniques than are available in Michigan. ``We're going to get all of our information and would like to go to Harvard or Mayo ( Clinic ) or places where maybe they do have more experience, and act in a shorter time frame,'' Shelby says. ``If, right now, we can find two or three trials that maybe Shelby can get into, or a trial drug for me to try instead of the path I'm on right now, it could definitely benefit us,'' adds Ben. ``We just can't wait,'' Shelby says. Her prognosis is about six months, she says, and a year for her husband. ``Never give up, because there's no reason to. Just keep fighting,'' Shelby says. She breaks into tears : ``Especially when you have someone special to fight for and everyone has someone special to fight for -- there's no one who doesn't.''
( CNN ) Whether a patient is in the hospital for an organ transplant, an appendectomy or to have a baby, one complaint is common : the gown. You know the one. It might as well have been stitched together with paper towels and duct tape, and it usually leaves the wearer's behind hanging out. ``You're at the hospital because something's wrong with you -- you're vulnerable -- then you get to wear the most vulnerable garment ever invented to make the whole experience that much worse,'' said Ted Streuli, who lives in Edmond, Okla., and has had to wear hospital gowns on multiple occasions. Put another way : ``They are horrible. They are demeaning. They are belittling. They are disempowering,'' said Camilla McRory of Olney, Md.. Hospital gowns have gotten a face-lift after some help from fashion designers like these from Patient Style and the Henry Ford Innovation Institute. The gowns are among the most vexing parts of being in the hospital. But if efforts by some health systems are an indicator, the design may be on its way out of style. The Cleveland Clinic was an early trendsetter. In 2010, it introduced new gowns after being prompted by the CEO, who often heard patient complaints when he was a practicing heart surgeon. That feedback led to a search for something new, said Adrienne Boissy, chief experience officer at the hospital system. The prominent academic medical center ultimately sought the help of fashion icon Diane von Furstenberg, settling on a reversible gown with a front and back V-neck, complete derriere coverage, and features such as pockets, softer fabric and a new bolder print pattern. Patients ``loved the gowns,'' Boissy said. ``People felt much more comfortable in the new design, not just physically but emotionally.'' In recent years, she added, ``hospitals are looking at everything they do and trying to evaluate whether or not it contributes to enhancing the patient experience.''. It's all part of a trend among hospitals to improve the patient reviews and their own bottom lines -- fueled in part by the health law's focus on quality of care and other federal initiatives. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services increasingly factors patients' satisfaction into its quality measures, which are linked to the size of Medicare payments hospitals get. Sometimes the efforts involve large capital improvement projects. But they can also mean making waiting rooms more comfortable, improving the quality of food served to patients or, as in this case, updating hospital gowns. Ultimately, this focus leads to ``a better patient experience,'' said John Combes, senior vice president of the American Hospital Association. The Detroit-based Henry Ford Health System is in the process of updating its gowns, an initiative that began when the system's innovation institute challenged students at the city's College for Creative Studies to identify and offer a solution to one hospital problem. The students responded with the suggestion to redo the garment that has often been described by patients as flimsy, humiliating, indecent and itchy. The process took three years, but last fall, the institute unveiled a new and improved version. It's made of warmer fabric -- a cotton blend -- that wraps around a patient's body like a robe and comes in navy and light blue, the hospital's signature colors. Patient expectations are part of the calculus. They ``are demanding more privacy and more dignity,'' said Michael Forbes, a product designer at the Henry Ford Innovation Institute. When the institute tested his gown design, Forbes said, patient-satisfaction scores noticeably increased in a few days. The new gown ``was emblematic.. of an attitude that was conveyed to me at the hospital -- that they cared about me as a whole human being, not just the part they were operating on,'' said Dale Milford, who received a liver transplant during the time the redesign was being tested. ``That was the subtext of that whole thing, was that they were caring about me as a person and what it meant for me to be comfortable.''. But replacing the traditional design is no easy task. What patients wear needs to be comfortable yet allow health professionals proper access during exams, meaning it must open and close easily. The gowns also need to be easily mass-manufactured, as well as efficiently laundered and reused. New designs, though, can be expensive. After Valley Hospital of Ridgewood, N.J., switched to pajamas and gowns that provide extra coverage, costs went up $ 70,000 per year, said Leonard Guglielmo, the facility's chief supply chain officer, because the new garments cost more to buy and maintain. Beyond cost, more ingrained cultural expectations might also play a role in what hospitals think patients should wear, said Todd Lee, an assistant professor of medicine at McGill University, who co-authored a 2014 study in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine, examining whether gowns were important and whether patients might be fine wearing their own or hospital-provided pants, instead of or along with gowns. Often, doctors reported that pants or undergarments beneath gowns would have been okay, but patients said they were never given those options. Traditional gowns make it easier to examine patients quickly, and several doctors Lee spoke to seemed shocked at the idea that patients might wear garments other than the open-backed gown during their stay. But the most common challenge isn't necessarily doctor expectations or costs. It's navigating hospital bureaucracies, said Dusty Eber, president of the California-based company PatientStyle, which designs and sells alternative gowns. In his company's experience, hospital decisions are often made by committees, not individuals. ``There's a lot of bureaucratic runaround,'' Eber said. Kaiser Health News ( KHN ) is a nonprofit national health policy news service.
Baltimore, Maryland ( CNN ) Protesters angry over the death of Freddie Gray got into physical altercations with police Saturday night in downtown Baltimore near the city's famed baseball stadium. Some of the hundreds who confronted lines of police officers got into shoving matches with helmeted cops while other demonstrators threw objects. At least five police cars were damaged by people who smashed windows and jumped on them. Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said she was profoundly disappointed by the violence, adding that 95 % of the protesters were respectful but a ``small group of agitators intervened.''. Twelve people were arrested, Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said. ``We continue to have a few isolated pockets of individuals causing disturbances. We are deploying resources to keep everyone safe,'' the Baltimore Police Department tweeted. Fredericka Gray, the twin sister of Freddie Gray, made a statement : ``My family wants to say, `Can y' all please, please stop the violence ? Freddie Gray would not want this.' Freddie's father and mother do not want any violence. Violence does not get justice.''. Vandals broke and damaged storefront windows and trashed one 7-Eleven, police said. CNN crews observed a window damaged at a Michael Kors store and holes in one at a Subway restaurant. The skirmishes followed a planned demonstration over how police handled the arrest of Gray, a 25-year-old Baltimore man who suffered a spinal injury at some point after he was detained by police on April 12. He died a week later. The numbers of protesters dissipated substantially just before sunset, though some people were still walking in the streets near Oriole Park at Camden Yards, causing some traffic problems. Earlier, demonstrators had marched through the streets until they arrived at City Hall. Along the way, whenever it appeared the protest might get out of control, organizers reined the marchers back in. The event ended after speeches at Baltimore City Hall on Saturday evening, but many protesters continued to vent their anger by marching down to Inner Harbor. When demonstrators got to the stadium, tensions escalated and some people threw what appeared to be water bottles and other objects at the cops, who wore helmets and stood behind metal barricades. Fans who were arriving to watch the hometown Orioles play the Boston Red Sox were having trouble finding ways to the entrance gates. The Orioles won the game 5-4 in extra innings. For a time it appeared that fans would be held inside the ballpark until the demonstration quieted, but the gates were opened before the contest was over. Throughout the day, protesters yelled, ``No justice, no peace'' and ``All night, all day ; we're gon na fight for Freddie Gray.''. The police department used Twitter to update the public on the progress of the march. At City Hall, speakers demanded justice for the Gray family and an end to what they called police brutality against black suspects. At least one protest organizer had promised in advance that the event would be big enough to shut down the city, but while many people turned out and walked, the major disruption was only to traffic on a few streets. Gray died last Sunday. Protesters have marched since, outraged by the arrest, which was recorded on a bystander's cell phone and the nature of Gray's death. The witness said Gray was yelling and indicated he was having difficulty breathing. At some point after he was detained, he suffered a severe spinal cord injury. His family said his voice box was crushed and his neck snapped before he slipped into a coma and died. On Friday, police officials said that Gray should have received medical care at the site of his arrest and at other times as he was transported to a police station. The van carrying him stopped three times on its way to the station where he was to be booked, but when it arrived at the Western District officers called for an ambulance, which took him to a hospital. The questions investigators are looking into are : How and where did Gray suffer a severe spinal injury ? And are police liable for his death ?. The preliminary work on his autopsy has been done, but the medical examiner's office is waiting on toxicology results and may invite spinal experts to look at the case, authorities said. A full report may take 30 to 45 days. Batts told reporters on Friday there are no excuses for the fact that Gray was not buckled in as he was transported to a police station. He also said officers should have given Gray timely medical care ``multiple times.''. Those comments upset members of the Baltimore Fraternal Order of Police. ``We are disappointed in the comments made yesterday by Commissioner Anthony Batts, and various members of his command staff, relative to the actions of the officers directly involved in the Gray investigation,'' Gene Ryan, president of the organization said in a written statement. ``These comments appear to be politically driven and in direct contrast to the commissioner's own request not to jump to any conclusions until the entire investigation is complete.''. Police say five of the six officers involved in the arrest have provided statements to investigators. The sixth officer has invoked his right to refuse to answer questions, Batts said. A wake for Gray will be held Sunday, with a memorial service and funeral following on Monday. CNN's Miguel Marquez reported from Baltimore. Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. Vivian Kuo contributed to this article.
( CNN ) Is there anything laser can't do ?. From cutting diamonds to preserving endangered sites, all the way to building terrifying weapons and turning your eyes from brown to blue, there is apparently no end to the list of applications for laser. Swiss physicist Jean-Pierre Wolf is working on yet another impressive addition to that list : using focused laser beams to affect the weather. It sounds like black magic, but it's actually a cleaner version of cloud seeding, a form of weather modification that has been used for several years -- most famously by China in preparation for the 2008 Olympics, when they launched rockets to seed the clouds and prevent rainfall during the opening ceremony. But it's hard to tell how effective cloud seeding actually is, and it involves the spraying of chemicals into the atmosphere, something which it surely doesn't need. Laser is therefore a completely clean alternative to traditional cloud seeding : it's light, and nothing but light. How does laser actually affect the weather ? Just like cloud seeding, it can create new clouds where there are none, by inducing condensation : naturally occurring water vapor is condensed into droplets, and ice crystals form, mimicking the natural process that creates clouds. That way, rainfall can be triggered to ``empty'' the atmosphere and increase the potential of dry weather later on : ``We did it on a laboratory scale, we can already create clouds, but not on a macroscopic scale, so you don't see a big cloud coming out because the laser is not powerful enough and because of a lot of technical parameters that we can't yet control,'' Professor Wolf told CNN's Nick Glass. That is not to say that the laser he's tested isn't powerful : at one terawatt, it has the same energy produced by all the nuclear power plants on Earth : ``Of course, it doesn't last very long,'' Wolf said. The technology is still in its infancy then, but once it's perfected, it could help us modulate the weather in areas of high contrast, such as California or Chile, where flooding and droughts occur in extreme vicinity. Through lasers, those effects could be smoothed to have less rain in flooding-prone areas and more rain in drought-prone areas : ``You can transport the water to a different location,'' Wolf said. Laser seeding can make more than clouds : it can also trigger lightning. ``We also showed that it's possible to trigger lightning in clouds, within clouds, but not to the ground, yet.''. Recent tests have shown promise :'' A few years ago, in New Mexico, we moved our big mobile terawatt laser to the top of a mountain and we shot it up into the atmosphere, trying to trigger lightning. We didn't, but we could see some small discharge, lightning, within the cloud. You know, 90 per cent of the lightning discharge are intra-cloud, not against the Earth. So, we are still working on that, but there is hope.''. Controlling lightning, or facilitating its discharge in a desired location, would help reduce the costs associated with lightning damage -- they run into the billions of dollars each year, adding to thousands of people injured or killed by lightning strikes. Affecting the weather could also turn out to be one of our best bets at limiting the impact of climate change. Professor Wolf reckons lasers could be used to ``repair'' the weather, reducing the occurrence of hurricanes, thunderstorms, flooding, and drought. But his laser technology can look way beyond the clouds : ``There are potential applications in the biomedical field : by changing the color of the laser, we could identify and selectively kill cancer cells, with little or no collateral damage.''. Yet another potential application to add to that list : ``Every time you think you have done everything you can with lasers, something new comes up : it's quite amazing.''
( CNN ) ISIS on Wednesday released more than 200 Yazidis, a minority group whose members were killed, captured and displaced when the Islamist terror organization overtook their towns in northern Iraq last summer, officials said. Most of those released were women and children ; the rest were ill or elderly, said Rassol Omar, a commander in the Peshmerga force that defends northern Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish region. Omar didn't say what led to the release, other than asserting that Arab tribal leaders helped to coordinate it. The freed Yazidis were received by Peshmerga, who sent them to the Kurdish regional capital, Irbil, said Nuri Osman, an official with Iraq's Kurdistan Regional Government. It wasn't immediately clear what motivated Wednesday's release, Osman said. Osman said 217 Yazidis were released. Omar, the Peshmerga commander, had a higher count : 228. ISIS previously released scores of other Yazidis -- largely children and the elderly -- since attacking the group's towns last year. The Sunni Islamist militant group steamrolled into Iraq's north last summer, forcing hundreds of thousands of minorities -- Yazidis among them -- from their homes. Yazidis are of Kurdish descent, and their religion is considered a pre-Islamic sect that draws from Christianity, Judaism and Zoroastrianism. One of the oldest religious communities in the world, the Yazidis have long suffered persecution, with many Muslims referring to them as devil worshipers. ISIS' cruelty to them has been extraordinary. ISIS' conquest of the town of Sinjar, in particular, provoked a major humanitarian crisis as some Yazidis fled into the mountains -- where many became trapped for a time without food and water -- and others fled by foot into neighboring Syria. ISIS slaughtered Yazidis by the hundreds, Yian Dakhil, the only lawmaker representing the Yazidis in Iraq's Parliament, told CNN last year. Reports emerged from some Yazidi survivors that ISIS raped and enslaved female Yazidi captives. An international coalition responded, first by airdropping supplies in the mountains. Rescues came next. And then, starting in August, the United States and other nations conducted airstrikes targeting ISIS in Iraq and Syria. The U.S. State Department estimates that 500,000 Yazidis live in northern Iraq, accounting for less than 1 % of the country's population. CNN's Raja Razek reported from Beirut. CNN's Jason Hanna wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Hamdi Alkshali, Faith Karimi and Yousuf Basil contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The attorney for a suburban New York cardiologist charged in what authorities say was a failed scheme to have another physician hurt or killed is calling the allegations against his client ``completely unsubstantiated.''. Appearing Saturday morning on CNN's ``New Day,'' Randy Zelin defended his client, Dr. Anthony Moschetto, who faces criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson, criminal prescription sale and weapons charges in connection to what prosecutors called a plot to take out a rival doctor on Long Island. ``None of anything in this case has any evidentiary value,'' Zelin told CNN's Christi Paul. ``It doesn't matter what anyone says, he is presumed to be innocent.''. Moschetto,54, pleaded not guilty to all charges Wednesday. He was released after posting $ 2 million bond and surrendering his passport. Zelin said that his next move is to get Dr. Moshetto back to work. ``He's got patients to see. This man, while he was in a detention cell, the only thing that he cared about were his patients. And amazingly, his patients were flooding the office with calls, making sure that he was OK,'' Zelin said. Two other men -- identified as James Chmela, 43, and James Kalamaras, 41 -- were named as accomplices, according to prosecutors. They pleaded not guilty in Nassau County District Court, according to authorities. Both were released on bail. A requests for comment from an attorney representing Chmela was not returned. It's unclear whether Kalamaras has retained an attorney. Police officers allegedly discovered approximately 100 weapons at Moschetto's home, including hand grenades, high-capacity magazines and knives. Many of the weapons were found in a hidden room behind a switch-activated bookshelf, according to prosecutors. The investigation began back in December, when undercover officers began buying heroin and oxycodone pills from Moschetto in what was initially a routine investigation into the sale of prescription drugs, officials said. During the course of the undercover operation, however, Moschetto also sold the officers two semiautomatic assault weapons as well as ammunition, prosecutors said. Moschetto allegedly told officers during one buy that he needed dynamite to ``blow up a building.'' He later said he no longer needed the dynamite because a friend was setting fire to the building instead. Kalamaras and Chmela are believed to have taken part in the arson, according to prosecutors. ``The fire damaged but did not destroy the office of another cardiologist whose relationship with Dr. Moschetto had soured due to a professional dispute,'' according to the statement from the district attorney's office. Moschetto allegedly gave an informant and undercover detective blank prescriptions and cash for the assault and killing of the fellow cardiologist, according to prosecutors. He also requested that the rival's wife be assaulted if she happened to be present, authorities said. ``He was willing to pay $ 5,000 to have him beaten and put in a hospital for a few months, and then he said he would pay $ 20,000 to have him killed,'' said Assistant District Attorney Anne Donnelly, according to CNN affiliate WCBS.
( CNN ) Editor's Note ( July 8, 2015 ) -- Questions have arisen about the identity of the girl who Dr. Sanjay Gupta helped operate on during a week in Nepal in the aftermath of a devastating earthquake. CNN is looking into those questions and will update our coverage as warranted. Gupta helped doctors at Bir Hospital in Kathmandu perform a craniotomy in a makeshift operating room on a young patient as described in this story ; it is the identity of the patient that is in question. Original story ( Published April 27, 2015 ) :. Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) -- An ambulance arrives, and a young girl with a bandaged head and badly blackened eye is rushed into Kathmandu's Bir Hopital on a wheelchair amid much commotion. She is Selena Dohal, 8, and her skull was fractured when a massive earthquake shook her neighborhood, two and a half hours from the Nepalese capital, to the ground on Saturday. Blood has collected on top of her brain, in the right frontal area, and she urgently needs surgery to remove the clots. ``She went to get some water, and a house collapsed on her head,'' her grandfather Ram Prasad Duhal tells a doctor. Her grandfather has accompanied Selena to the capital from Panchhkal while her parents take care of her injured brother, who has fractures to both legs. The girl has received some treatment at another hospital but has been brought to Bir in the hopes her life can be saved. ``She was badly crushed. The roof of the house was on her. She was found after a few hours,'' neurosurgeon Bikesh Khambu says. She receives a craniotomy in a makeshift operating room. Sanjay Gupta, a neurosurgeon and CNN's chief medical correspondent, has scrubbed up at the request of a Nepalese medical team to help with the operation. The conditions are less than ideal. Gupta washes up using sterile water and iodine poured from a bottle rather than hot water from a scrub sink. Instead of electric drills, he relies on saws of the variety usually only used in war zones and natural disasters due to the lack of electricity. Despite the suboptimal conditions, the operation is a success, and her prognosis is good, Gupta says. It might not look it, but Selena is one of the lucky ones. Thousands were killed when a devastating earthquake rocked Nepal on Saturday. More thousands were injured, many of whom have flooded the capital's overstretched hospitals. ``I've seen a lot of situations around the world, and this is as bad as I've ever seen it,'' Gupta says. ``They need more resources, they need more personnel here right now, and they're expecting many more patients as these rescue operations go on. ``They're barely able to keep up right now. It's part of the reason they asked me ( to help ) ; I think they're asking anybody to try to pitch in.''. How to help the earthquake victims. Bir Hospital, a government facility, is one of the busiest in Kathmandu. Its inpatient wing, now scarred with cracks, was abandoned after big aftershocks Sunday, and doctors have scrambled to accommodate the influx of victims. More than 4,300 were killed in Nepal by the 7.8-magnitude quake, the strongest to hit the region in more than 80 years. More than 8,000 were reported to have been injured, but officials fear that number will be much higher once information emerges from remote areas. Many of the wounded are now across the road from the hospital at the Nepal Army Pavilion, a huge open space in central Kathmandu, and tarps have been erected at the front of the hospital for people to have shelter. Patients are housed here alongside other local residents who have fled their homes, finding shelter under tents. ``You should have been here yesterday. The building was shaking, and we all had to run out across the road,'' neurosurgeon Paresh Mani Shrestha says. ``Everyone is scared to be there. We evacuated the patients ; no one wants to go there to work.''. Looking for missing loved ones in Nepal ? CNN iReport wants to help. Bir Hospital is a chaotic scene Monday as ambulances race in discharging new admissions, patients wail on stretchers in the lobby and distraught family members mill about. ``We have about 150 patients, but more are pouring in because the rescue is just happening,'' Shrestha says. ``When it happened on Saturday, all we could do was go `dead or alive' -- that was the only triage we could do.''. He says they received about 80 patients from Dharahara, the historic nine-story tower destroyed in the quake. ``There was nothing coming in yesterday,'' Shrestha says. But now the rescue is underway, and patients are arriving at Bir from less-equipped satellite hospitals. Among them is a Western woman in a wheelchair, her arm in an improvised splint of branches. She comes from Langtang, north of Kathmandu, where reports are arriving of immense devastation. Doctors are seeing patients with head injuries, pelvic and lower and upper limb fractures, Shrestha says. Read earthquake stories from social media. Hospitals were running short on supplies despite international efforts to rush in aid. Numerous aid groups and at least 16 nations rushed aid and workers to Nepal, with more on the way. And although the surgeons at Bir Hospital were able to save the life of young Selena, international aid agencies have warned that other children may not be so lucky. UNICEF, the U.N. children's agency, said Sunday that nearly 1 million Nepalese children urgently need assistance. But some aid flights were delayed over the weekend due to aftershocks, leading to fears that many more may die before they get the help they desperately need.
( CNN ) Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old. By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic. Hanging in his workshop Gordon has a full suit of armor plating, cape and cowl -- matte black and built to stop a knife. Gordon has an alter ego : the Dark Knight himself, Batman. You might expect his origin story to be cloaked in mystery, but speaking to CNN Gordon is quick to explain how the transformation took place. Gordon says his calling came five years ago when he began experimenting with cosplay. ``Previously I'd been involved with costume making.. I'd made a version of the Batsuit from Christopher Nolan's `Dark Knight Trilogy' and I really liked that suit,'' Gordon says. But, as elaborate as his design was, it lacked the functionality or the authenticity of the genuine article. ``I was frustrated every time I wore it,'' Gordon explains. ``It really limited my mobility and I didn't like that -- it didn't go with the character.''. In September 2014 he bit the bullet, deciding ``to do another one that wouldn't inhibit my mobility and would actually provide protection and function more like Batman's actual suit.''. The Batsuit had to be strong -- tough enough to withstand the stab or slash of a knife, the impact of a punch or a baseball bat, but light and articulate enough to make it practical. Striking such a balance required expensive materials, and they didn't come cheap. Gordon therefore fired up a Kickstarter campaign. He ``didn't really think anyone would fund it or even be interested in it'' -- he raised $ 1,255 in 6 days. ``It was a little surprising,'' Gordon demurs. Writing out his shopping list, it was important that ``everywhere, even places without armor plating, had some sort of protection.'' Kevlar was sourced as the base fabric, making it ``cut and slash resistant to bladed weapons, but breathable and wearable all day.''. Eschewing conventional materials, Gordon opted for a form of memory foam, built around key areas to ``squish and compress,'' dissipating the impact of blows. After much experimenting with ``polycarbonates and extruded PVC materials,'' 1/4'' Kydex ( or ABS ) plastic formed the tough armor plates, located on the torso, forearms and shins. Stab resistant, Gordon says ``it can take anything but a gunshot.''. The cowl was more problematic, being ``nearly impossible'' to craft out of the same materials within the limits of his workshop. Gordon therefore took a mold of his head using Sintra plastic, ``working on top of that with different sculpting clays and soft plastics to get it into a recognizable Batman shape.'' Using a two part box mold Gordon was able to create a ``silicone jacket'' of this, into which liquid polyurethane was poured, forming the final, ``durable and functional'' cowl. Gordon ( who doesn't appear to be related to Gotham City's police commissioner, James Gordon ) is also an expert in Shaolin Kung Fu : he is both brains and brawn, a cross between Bruce Wayne and Batsuit designer Lucius Fox from Nolan's Batman trilogy. Legendary, the production company behind the films, has taken note of his design and given it their seal of approval. The Batsuit has made appearances at conventions and proved a showstopper among his fellow students and the faculty. ``People love the theatricality of it,'' its designer says. That the product so closely mimics DC's fantastical comic book creation has had resonance. He has already begun manufacturing the cowls for the public, with ``fully adjustable'' jackets going up for sale on his site Armatus Design ``in the next couple of weeks.''. The jackets have received particular attention. Gordon has received ``easily over 50 requests from people,'' and not just from the cosplay community. ``They range from recreational use to martial artists.. but also motorcycle and All Terrain Vehicle riders who want protective gear and prefer the look and functionality of -LSB- Gordon's -RSB- suit.''. Perhaps because of their versatility and the small matter of copyright issues, those that go on sale will not feature the iconic bat symbol. Gordon says his fledgling business will remain small whilst he's at University -- he has to finish he studies after all, and won't be using the project towards his degree credits. For now the Batsuit and Armatus Design will remain a one man operation : such is the life of a superhero.
Washington ( CNN ) A year after ISIS became a household name in America, using brutality and savvy propaganda to challenge al Qaeda and its affiliates for jihadist adherents, U.S. prosecutions of would-be recruits have exploded. The flurry of arrests -- at least 25 people have been detained since January -- is a sign that complicated, manpower-intensive investigations begun when ISIS started seizing swaths of territory a year ago are finally being completed. But they also highlight the unique challenges that ISIS poses in comparison with al Qaeda, which has attracted fewer U.S.-based recruits. Like a new rock band storming the music charts, ISIS has benefited from a media environment that amplifies its propaganda, law enforcement officials said. The group quickly reached early recruits through videos that showcased the fear its adherents instilled in nonbelievers. At first, most of the recruits were self-starters -- people radicalized on their own from consuming ISIS propaganda from YouTube videos and other social media. Much of the propaganda comes in the form of slick movie trailer-style videos, some glorifying brutal practices such as the beheading of anyone who ISIS leaders decide doesn't comport with their medieval brand of Islam. But once those initial Western recruits arrived, living in the self-declared ISIS caliphate spanning parts of Syria and Iraq, they started to directly entice friends and other contacts back home to join them. In Minnesota, nine men have been charged as part of an alleged cell of recruits linked to American Abdi Nur, who turned up fighting with ISIS in Syria in 2014 and began to appeal to his friends to come to the Middle East. ``Each one of those folks who makes it over there has the capability to reach out back to their contacts back here,'' a senior U.S. counterterrorism official said. It's a phenomenon observed in Norway and other European nations, where clusters of young people have been lured to ISIS. And the ISIS recruiters have an easier path to drawing supporters than al Qaeda has had. A decade ago, that group's recruits faced formidable obstacles trying to get to training camps deep in hard-to-reach areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan's tribal region. Few Westerners went through the trouble. Minneapolis men allegedly trying to join ISIS highlight role of American recruiter. Today, ISIS occupies much more accessible territory, mostly reachable through Turkey. Istanbul's airport has easy connections to Western Europe and much of the rest of the world. From there, Turkey's modern infrastructure offers quick access to the border regions where smugglers can help jihadis get across to Syria. The informal recruitment networks and ease of travel have presented a difficult puzzle to intelligence and counterterrorism officials, who are used to tracking networks of facilitators and fundraisers that funnel recruits eastward. ``It's harder for us to pick up on,'' the U.S. counterterrorism official said of the peer-to-peer recruitment, which is well below the radar. How ISIS is luring Westerners. Before ISIS, investigators could often focus on radicalizing mosques and clerics to figure out those networks. Al Qaeda recruitment focused on attracting radicals who were motivated to join the fight to protect Islamic holy lands. Much of the recruitment occurred in countries with strong conservative Islamic histories, including Saudi Arabia and Yemen, U.S. officials said. In contrast, ISIS takes a somewhat secular approach, portraying how much better life purportedly is in the caliphate as compared to the corrupt West. And people attracted to ISIS' marketing run the gamut from rich to poor, educated to dropout, male to female, teenaged to middle-aged. There are signs Western recruits have risen to high levels in the ISIS organization, with their influence reflected in the latest propaganda, counterterrorism and intelligence officials said. The English is proper, with fewer grammatical and spelling mistakes. And while the large number of arrests show that law enforcement officials are succeeding in their disruption efforts, it also means that U.S. authorities don't see the lure of ISIS receding any time soon. ``We are opening cases quicker than we are closing them,'' the U.S. counterterrorism official said. Who has been recruited to ISIS from the West ?
( CNN ) It started with neighbors and local officials digging with their hands through the rubble. As soon as a deadly earthquake stopped rattling a swath of Nepal, before the scope of the damage was calculated, the digging began. The magnitude-7.8 earthquake has killed more than 1,800 people, and the death toll is expected to rise. One witness, Joe McEnness, captured a photo of police officers in Kathmandu, the Nepalese capital, trying to dig survivors out of a collapsed building. The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said its volunteers and staff were aiding rescue efforts and providing first aid to the injured. The Red Cross opened a blood bank in Kathmandu. Reports from Nepal indicated that hospitals were overflowing with patients and suffering from shortages. One doctor in the outskirts of Kathmandu put out a plea for engineers to come to his hospital to help back up the electricity supply. ``Victims will be dying if we don't have it,'' Dr. Subhash Acharya tweeted. At another hospital, CNN's Manesh Shrestha saw people being turned away as doctors focused on the most dire needs, he said. He saw people lying outside with broken bones and head injuries. With communication limited, many turned to social media to ask for help locating their loved ones. Google India launched a person finder website to work as a clearinghouse for information on those who are missing and those who have been found. As of Saturday night in Nepal, Google was tracking some 1,400 records. Facebook activated Safety Check, which alerts users of any friends who are in the disaster zone. Those in the affected area can use Facebook to alert their family and friends that they are OK. The U.S. government is providing $ 1 million in immediate assistance, the U.S. Embassy in Nepal said. American disaster response teams are also on their way to the country, the Embassy said via Twitter. Nepal's neighbor India deployed teams to Kathmandu almost immediately. Within hours of the quake, India had sent almost 300 personnel, along with search dogs and supplies. The equipment arrived in Nepal via a series of cargo and airlift planes, including a C-130 Super Hercules, one IL-76, and two C-17 Globemasters, according to India's Ministry of Defense. Two additional helicopters were deployed from India but turned back because of bad weather, the ministry said. India said Sunday that it would dispatch 10 more aid flights to Nepal, along with 10 helicopters to assist in search-and-rescue efforts. Disaster management and medical personnel as well as mobile hospitals, food, water, blankets and medicine will be on the aid flights, Ministry of Defense spokesman Sitanshu Kar said. Pakistan announced it is sending a medical team, a 30-bed hospital and search-and-rescue experts. The Pakistani search team is specialized for rescues in natural disasters, officials said, and comes equipped with ground-penetrating radar and concrete cutters. Pakistan is sending meals, water, medicine and other supplies. China, meanwhile, announced that it will send 40 rescuers and six search dogs. Israel's military was preparing to send a team to assess the damage from the quake ahead of a humanitarian mission, the Israel Defense Forces said. Hikers around Mount Everest run for lives, treat injured. CNN's Kunal Sehgal contributed to this report.
Tikrit, Iraq ( CNN ) Mass graves believed to hold Iraqi soldiers have been discovered in newly liberated Tikrit. Up to 1,700 bodies may be recovered. ISIS claimed to have executed that many soldiers captured in June outside Camp Speicher, a fortified Iraqi base near Tikrit. A total of 47 bodies have been exhumed from two of the 11 mass graves discovered in Tikrit, an Iraqi government official said Tuesday. Hundreds are believed to have been executed by ISIS in June 2014. Grieving Iraqis, apparently not related to the soldiers, gathered to pray over the bodies. When the first three bodies were found, 10 Iraqi soldiers saluted the dead by firing seven shots into the air. The national anthem was played while soldiers wept. All the bodies were decomposed. Some had their hands bound, Damon said. The remains will be sent back to Baghdad for DNA tests to establish identify, said Ali Tahir, a director in the Iraqi morgue who was supervising the digging and extraction. Damon said there may be eight mass graves inside the presidential palace complex, which contains the residences of former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, and two other sites outside the city. The presidential palaces complex became ISIS headquarters after the militants occupied the city. Iraqi soldiers and Shiite militias retook Tikrit a few days ago after a fierce battle. Damon interviewed a soldier who said he survived the massacre by playing dead. The solider said ISIS captured the troops outside Camp Speicher and marched them to the presidential palace complex, telling them they would be safe until a prisoner swap was arranged. Once inside the compound, the soldiers were separated into smaller groups, executed and buried in mass graves, the survivor told Damon. He said he was tossed into a river and floated to an embankment. On Monday, Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said revenge is not the way to deal with the discovery of the bodies. He said several people involved in the killings have been detained. Families of the missing soldiers had been demanding answers from the Iraqi government about what happened. As ISIS swept through northern Iraq in June, some military units were ordered to Camp Speicher. Their families claim the men received orders from their commanders to leave the base and move closer to Baghdad. They left unarmed and in civilian clothes, they say. Military commanders and the Iraqi Defense Ministry denied any such orders being issued and said the men deserted. ISIS released videos that showed what seemed to be an endless line of military recruits marched at gunpoint and later posted images showing cold-blooded mass killings. Damon said Iraqi officials told her it may take weeks or months to exhume all the bodies. Human Rights Watch described the ``Speicher Massacre'' -- as it has been dubbed in Iraq -- as the ``largest reported incident'' where ``ISIS captured more than 1,000 soldiers fleeing Camp Speicher.. then summarily executed at least 800 of them.''. Based on satellite imagery and witness testimony, Human Rights Watch last year was able to identity a number of mass grave sites inside Tikrit and the presidential palace complex. The families gave DNA samples to the Iraqi Ministry of Health last year so authorities would be able to match them to unidentified bodies the government may find. CNN's Arwa Damon reported from Tikrit, and Ralph Ellis wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh contributed to this report.
Kathmandu, Nepal ( CNN ) Rescuers in Nepal have pulled a man from the wreckage of a building where he was stuck for a staggering 82 hours after the devastating earthquake that hit the country Saturday. His survival is unusual, as experts say it's rare for injured people who are trapped to hold out for longer than 72 hours after a disaster. The man, Rishi Khanal, was saved after a French search and rescue team found him under the rubble on the outskirts of Kathmandu, the capital, around noon Tuesday, said Pushparam K.C., a spokesman for the Armed Police Force of Nepal. The team used specialized gear that detects signs of life, he said. But it took about 10 more hours for the French team and police officers to dig him out, the spokesman said. A police video of the rescue showed the teams drilling through concrete to reach Khanal's location and then hauling him up through the hole. They then carried him out of the ruined building on a stretcher. On Wednesday afternoon, Khanal, 27, had just undergone surgery and was resting, surrounded by family and friends. He had suffered a crushed foot and was too weak and distraught to talk about his traumatic experience. ``It seems he survived by sheer willpower,'' said Akhilesh Shrestha, a doctor who treated Khanal, according to the Reuters news agency. Khanal's story of survival isn't the only one to emerge from the terrible destruction wrought by the quake, which has killed more than 5,000 people. A 4-month-old baby was rescued from a destroyed building in the town of Bhaktapur at least 22 hours after the quake struck, the newspaper Kathmandu Today reported. A Nepali military team had failed to notice the child during its search but returned after his cry was heard, the newspaper said. The little boy, whose name is Sonit Awal, was reported to be in stable condition without any internal injuries, according to initial examinations. CNN hasn't independently confirmed Sonit's rescue, but the newspaper published photos showing the dust-caked infant being lifted by Nepali soldiers in the ruined structure. Tanka Maya Sitoula, a 40-year-old mother of four, was at home in Kathmandu when the earthquake shook the city, bringing the five-story building down around her ground-floor apartment. She endured 36 long hours trapped in a room before an Indian rescue team freed her. She escaped without injury, apparently protected by a beam. Sitoula says she remained confident she would survive amid the rubble. ``I heard people making noise outside, so I thought I would be rescued,'' she said, as she and her family sheltered on the grounds of a nearby school. What did she do for 36 hours ? ``I was just lying down,'' she said. ``There was no room to move here and there.''. Sitoula's husband, Mahendra, a butcher, said he called out for help for hours after the quake, as he could hear her shouting in the rubble of the collapsed building. It took 18 hours before the necessary help arrived, he said. And it took another 18 hours to free her. Jon Keisi was buried for more than 60 hours under the wreckage of a seven-story building in Kathmandu that came tumbling down around him during the quake. Rescue workers flown in from Turkey had to help carve a tunnel deep into the debris to reach him. Encased in an orange stretcher, he was lifted to safety Tuesday. But he cried out in pain after his rescuers set him down, shaking his head from side to side. One of the hard-hat-wearing search team members that crowded around him called for water. Keisi was injured and dehydrated, but the rescuers said they were confident he would survive. CNN's Elizabeth Joseph reported from Kathmandu, and CNN's Jethro Mullen wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Moni Basu, Manesh Shrestha, Ivan Watson, Tim Hume and Pamela Boykoff contributed to this report.
( CNN ) In the end, it played out like a movie. A tense, heartbreaking story, and then a surprise twist at the end. As eight of Mary Jane Veloso's fellow death row inmates -- mostly foreigners, like her -- were put to death by firing squad early Wednesday in a wooded grove on the Indonesian island of Nusa Kambangan, the Filipina maid and mother of two was spared, at least for now. Her family was returning from what they thought was their final visit to the prison on so-called ``execution island'' when a Philippine TV crew flagged their bus down to tell them of the decision to postpone her execution. Her ecstatic mother, Celia Veloso, told CNN : ``We are so happy, so happy. I thought I had lost my daughter already but God is so good. Thank you to everyone who helped us.''. Supporters were ``overjoyed'' with the news. ``This is all because of the efforts of the Filipino people and the international community who have been with Mary Jane, her family and the Filipino people all throughout,'' a supporter said upon hearing of the eleventh-hour reprieve. Veloso was arrested in 2010 after a flight from Malaysia to Indonesia when $ 500,000 worth of heroin was discovered in the lining of her luggage. Supporters, including the Filipino advocacy group Migrante, and her lawyers claim the young mother was the victim of human trafficking. They say she was offered work in Malaysia, but when she arrived she was told the job had been filled and wasn't aware the bag she'd been given for the return journey to Indonesia was filled with drugs. The Philippine Embassy in Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, said Wednesday that it welcomed the reprieve and appreciated that the Indonesian government appeared to be reconsidering the case. ``While Mary Jane was convicted for a drug-related offense in 2010, the Philippines believes that due to her personal circumstances, she herself is a victim of heartless drug syndicates,'' embassy political secretary Jed Llona said. ``The alleged recruiters of Mary Jane are currently being investigated in the Philippines, and the embassy hopes that through this ongoing case, those truly responsible for drug trafficking in the region are brought to justice.''. Questions about her detention and trial, including the competency of her translator, have also been raised. Veloso had been given the customary 72 hours' notice of execution, and her family had traveled to Nusa Kambangan to say their final goodbyes. However, developments in her home country appear to have changed -- or at least delayed -- her fate. CNN Philippines reported that Veloso's alleged recruiter, Maria Kristina Sergio, and her partner Julius Lacanilao surrendered to authorities in the Philippines Tuesday. Sergio faces charges of illegal recruitment, human trafficking, and fraud, but maintains her innocence. Sergio said that she had received anonymous death threats by phone, and further threatening messages from Veloso's family on social media. Veloso's lawyer, Edre Olalia, confirmed that developments in the case had prompted the stay. ``As far as Mary Jane is concerned, her life has been spared for the moment and the reason is that the legal proceedings in the Philippines must be respected first in view of the fact that the illegal recruiter is now in custody,'' he told CNN Philippines. Indonesian President Joko Widodo told reporters Wednesday that the decision was the result of the Indonesian government's desire to cooperate with the ongoing case in the Philippines. ``There was a letter from the Philippine government saying that there is a legal process related to human trafficking there. So we need to respect this legal process.''. He stressed, however, that the execution was delayed, rather than canceled. Veloso's case has touched the public in her native Philippines, with the highest levels of government and celebrity calling for mercy. President Benigno Aquino met his Indonesian counterpart on the sidelines at the ASEAN summit in Kuala Lumpur last weekend and pressed for him to commute Veloso's sentence. Filipino boxing superstar Manny Pacquiao, who is primed to fight longtime foe Floyd Mayweather Saturday, made a televised appeal to President Widodo, also asking for mercy for Veloso. ``I am begging and knocking on your kind heart that Your Excellency will grant executive clemency to her,'' he said. Veloso's sons, Mark Daniel and Mark Darren, ages 6 and 12, issued a heartbreaking plea, aimed at Widodo's son, asking him to intervene. ``Please tell your father not to execute her,'' they asked. Ordinary people are also fighting for their compatriot, including Filipino domestic workers in Hong Kong, who protested at the Indonesian Consulate in Hong Kong Tuesday. Philippine Embassy officials said Veloso would be returned to Yogyakarta prison in Central Java later on Wednesday. Lawyers fighting to delay her execution previously said they'd given up their bid after her second legal review was rejected on Monday.
Baltimore ( CNN ) The streets of Baltimore are calm once again. For the second night in a row, protesters peacefully dispersed Wednesday night after a 10 p.m. curfew meant to prevent riots that tore up the city two days earlier. Many wore T-shirts that said ``Black Lives Matter,'' demanding accountability for the death of Freddie Gray. While the Baltimore protesters remained calm, some of their counterparts across the country were not. More than 100 people were arrested in New York during a ``NYC Rise Up & Shut It Down With Baltimore'' rally Wednesday night, New York police said. And Denver police arrested 11 people for charges such as assaulting a police officer, robbery, resisting police, disobedience to lawful orders and obstructing roadways. All this comes as protesters demand to know what happened to Gray, who was arrested April 12 and suffered a severe spinal cord injury. He died one week later. Demonstrations are planned for Thursday in Cincinnati, CNN affiliate WXIX said. And a ``Philly is Baltimore'' protest will take place at Philadelphia City Hall, Philly.com said. Seattle, Portland, Oregon, and Oakland, California, are on tap for Friday, which is also May Day or International Workers Day -- often used to call attention to issues affecting the working class and minorities. More than 100 people arrested during the fracas in Baltimore this week were released Wednesday without charges, the state public defender's office said. Authorities either had to charge or release them within 48 hours of their arrests. ``We've come up on a time line,'' said Police Commissioner Anthony Batts. But, he added : ``We're not giving up on them. We're just going to follow up.''. Enya Baez-Ferreras, a student at Johns Hopkins University, joined in the protests Wednesday. She said the violence that marred Baltimore this week is not reflective of the city. ``Baltimore is not violent. We have been under a lot of duress, and the violence that erupted the other day is only in reaction to the years and decades of oppression, of police brutality, of harassment that many of the Baltimore residents have been under,'' she said. President Barack Obama denounced the ``violence, looting, destruction that we saw from a handful of individuals in Baltimore.''. ``There's no excuse for that,'' he said in an interview that aired Wednesday on ``The Steve Harvey Morning Show.''. Obama said his ``heart goes out'' to injured officers, and he praised police who he said ``showed appropriate restraint.''. But he also talked about the state of urban communities. ``If you send police officers into those situations where the drug trade is the primary economy and you say to them basically your job is to contain that and arrest kids and put them in jail, when those police officers know ( it's not going to fix things ), then it's not surprising you end up with a situation of enormous tension between those communities and those police officers,'' he said. Obama : Baltimore rioting `hurts communities that are already suffering'. The relative calm that took over Baltimore can be credited in part to peaceful protesters who formed human barricades between hot-tempered demonstrators and police, day and night. ``We show that we can police ourselves,'' said a man who stood for hours in what protesters called a ``unity line.''. ``We're about positivity here in Baltimore. It starts with us. This long line of people came out here because what we seen on TV ( Monday night ), we didn't like it.''. The city implemented a 10 p.m.-to-5 a.m. curfew for a one-week period that started Tuesday. Asked if she was considering lifting the curfew early, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake told CNN's Chris Cuomo she had not made a decision yet. ``We re-evaluate it on a daily basis,'' the mayor said Thursday morning. Many residents credited police for not overreacting after the curfew went into effect Tuesday night, setting the tone for peaceful dispersal. ``The police did a fantastic job tonight,'' one person commented on Twitter. ``Technically they could of arrested everyone at 10:01.''. Some 2,000 National Guardsmen and more than 1,000 police officers from across Maryland and neighboring states were assigned to the streets of Baltimore on Tuesday night, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan said. Opinion : In Baltimore riots, `our hearts were broken'. While there was no major damage Wednesday, the recovery from Monday's destruction is far from over. Many saw their homes and vehicles damaged, their livelihoods in shambles. So residents like Cindy Oxendine took to the streets to sweep up rocks, glass and more, despite her aching back. The governor's office has started a website for those wanting to help Baltimore recover from this week's riots. ``We have received an outpouring of support from Marylanders and people all around the country who want to help get our beloved Baltimore back on its feet in the wake of the violence and destruction,'' Hogan said in a statement. The website, governor.maryland.gov / mdunites /, allows visitors to volunteer for cleanup efforts, donate to charities helping affected residents and report new incidents to police. Some leaders slam `thug' as the new n-word. CNN's Brian Todd reported from Baltimore ; Holly Yan reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Evan Perez, Greg Botelho, Dana Ford and Diane Ruggiero contributed to this report.
( CNN ) -LSB- Breaking news update, posted at 11:52 p.m. ET -RSB-. Denver police report nine arrests in Wednesday's demonstrations. The charges include assault of a police officer, robbery, resisting police, disobedience to lawful orders, obstructing roadways, and interference. -LSB- Previous story, posted at 10:54 p.m. ET -RSB-. ( CNN ) -- In cities across the United States, marchers took to the streets to show support for protesters in Baltimore and to complain about police violence in their own towns. On Wednesday night, several hundred people streamed into Union Square for an ``NYC Rise Up & Shut It Down With Baltimore'' rally. Protesters headed west on 17th Street and were met by New York City Police officers who pushed them back. A small scuffle broke out between the two front lines and police placed at least 20 people in zip ties in the street. The NYPD also handed out fliers and used loudspeakers to tell protesters and pedestrians to stay on the sidewalk. One person was placed in ambulance and taken away. The crowd headed toward Times Square. A law enforcement source told CNN that more than 60 people were arrested during the demonstrations. The rally was organized through social media, much like protests over the killing of Eric Garner, who died while police held him in what appeared to be a chokehold. The demonstrators chanted ``Black Lives Matter'' and ``Justice for Freddie Gray'' -- the Baltimore man whose death sparked street confrontations in Baltimore. CNN affiliate WCBS reported Mayor Bill de Blasio sent a message to the protesters : ``I'd say that if you want to make change, keep things peaceful.'' A smaller rally was held Tuesday in New York. In Washington, about 500 protesters, mostly in their 20s, gathered in the middle of H Street and 7th and chanted, ``All night, all day, we're gon na fight for Freddie Gray.''. The mood seemed more festive than confrontational, with songs by Public Enemy like ``Fight the Power'' playing and sign-language interpreters translating the music and chants. The protest moved to the White House where most of the crowd dispersed. It started after most office workers had headed home and didn't disrupt the Washington workforce badly. One of the groups involved in the protest is the DC Ferguson Movement. Organizer Eugene Puryear said the march was called to show solidarity with the residents in Baltimore and to highlight that police brutality is a national issue. Several hundred people gathered in Gold Medal Park in Minneapolis for a rally organized by the group of #BlackLivesMatter. The Minneapolis group held similar events in the past in response to alleged police brutality across the country. Protests also were held in Boston and Houston. On Tuesday, violent protests took place in Ferguson, Missouri, where three people were shot, the city police reported. Police said they didn't do the shooting. A 20-year-old man was arrested and the three victims were in stable condition -- two with wounds to the neck, one in the leg, police said. Police said about 300 people marched, with protesters throwing rocks at police, damaging four police cars and setting trash and debris on fire near Northwinds Estates and West Florissant, police said. One business in Dellwood was damaged, police said. No officers were injured as police conducted anti-riot activities until 3 a.m.. In Los Angeles, six people protesting against police brutality were arrested Monday night when they failed to disperse, reported CNN affiliate KABC. About 50 people marched, KABC said. On Tuesday, protesters gathered outside the Stapes Center, where the Los Angeles Clippers and the San Antonio Spurs were playing an NBA playoff game. They disrupted traffic and carried protest signs. In Chicago, hundreds of protesters marched Tuesday from police headquarters at 35th and Michigan through the Southside, CNN affiliate WGN reported. Police made one arrest, for reckless conduct. WGN said protesters spoke about police violence and the death of Rekia Boyd, who was killed by an off-duty officer in 2012. That officer was acquitted last week. The group plans to gather Wednesday night at the DePaul Law School. About 100 people marched Monday night in Oakland in support of Baltimore protesters, reported CNN affiliate KABC. A protest is planned for Thursday in Cincinnati, reported CNN affiliate WXIX. Philly.com said a ``Philly is Baltimore'' protest will be held Thursday at Philadelphia City Hall. CNN's Alexandra Field, Elizabeth Landers, Lorenzo Ferrigno and Suzanne Malveaux contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Most kids want to go out and play when they finish their homework early. But Zuriel Oduwole isn't ``most kids.'' When she gets ahead of her work, she packs her camera and microphones, jumps on a plane and interviews presidents instead. Born in California to a Nigerian father and a Mauritian mother, Oduwole is often described as ``the world's youngest filmmaker.'' Aged 12, she already has four documentaries under her belt -- all of which focus on African issues. It all started three years ago when Oduwole decided to enter a school documentary-making competition with a film about the Ghana revolution. Jerry John Rawlings ( Ghana ). John Kufour ( Ghana ). Joyce Banda ( Malawi ). Jakaya Kikwete ( Tanzania ). Rajkeswur Purryag ( Mauritius ). Uhuru Kenyatta ( Kenya ). Goodluck Johnathan ( Nigeria ). Salva Kirr Mayardit ( South Sudan ). Ellen Johnson Sirleaf ( Liberia ). Jorge Fonseco ( Cape Verde ). Portia Simpson Miller ( Jamaica ). Thomas Thabane ( Lesotho ). Ralph Gonsalves ( St Vincent & Grenadines ). Denzil Douglas ( St Kitts & Nevis ). After this first foray into filmmaking, Oduwole was bitten by the director's bug and quickly wanted to make more movies. She turned to the web to find the tools she needed and got involved in the entire filmmaking process. ``As I edit, produce, set up and write the scripts for my documentaries, I have to learn a lot of things,'' says Oduwole, who is self-taught and uses online editing and voice software. Her second outing, ``Educating and Healing Africa Out of Poverty,'' looked at the creation of the African Union in 1963. She followed it up in 2014 with her movie ``Technology in Educational Development.''. But it was her most recent project that catapulted her to international recognition. Released late last year, ``A Promising Africa'' ( watch trailer below ) is the first in an ongoing series which will profile five African nations, starting with her father's homeland of Nigeria. ``I've interviewed 14 heads of state and a few of those include the President of Tanzania, Liberia, Kenya, South Sudan, Nigeria and Cape Verde, to name a few,'' says Oduwole. ``I've also been able to interview business leaders like my friend Mr Aliko Dangote.''. To date, ``A Promising Africa'' has received a limited-release on the big screen in five countries -- Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, UK and Japan. The young trailblazer, who was named by Business Insider as one of world's 100 most powerful individuals last year, delightedly recalls seeing her film on the big screen and walking the red carpet in Lagos. ``I'm hoping that when people see these documentaries they will see Africa is full of positive things -- not just the things that are on the news like war, famine, disease,'' she says. ``I want to show them there is a lot more to Africa than what we see on the news -- there's dancing, music, great culture and more.''. Although she's just 12, Oduwole, who is home-schooled through an online Californian system, is already a 9th grader -- two years ahead of the rest of the kids her age. Her mother, Patricia, has a full-time job as a computer engineer, whilst her father, Ademola, has taken time off his work in the tourism sector to help organize a lot of what Zuriel and her three other siblings are doing. ``There really is a lot happening in our household but somehow we make it work,'' says Patricia Oduwole. In addition to her documentary work, Oduwole has also become something of an education advocate. She travels to different African countries and the diaspora on a regular basis to talk to students about the importance of education. So far, through her side project ``Dream Up, Speak Up, Stand Up'' she says she's had the opportunity to talk to 21,000 children in nine countries. ``Girl's education is important because on the African continent, where there are not as many resources, the boys are the first -LSB- to get an education -RSB-,'' says Oduwole. ``The boys go to school and get an education while the girls stay at home. And those girls aren't educated and have fewer options in life when they get older.''. More from African Voices.
( CNN ) Lest we Americans forget that -- in the wellsprings of our nation -- France bore the torch of liberty alongside us, our old ally has launched a reminder from across the Atlantic's waves. L'Hermione, with three sail masts and bright royal blue and gold markings, is a painstaking replica of an 18th century French frigate that fought with the United States' founding fathers in the War of Independence. It set sail in France on Saturday for Virginia to retrace a journey through American history. In 1780, the original Hermione was assigned to a French nobleman, who fought as a general in George Washington's army against the British. His name : Marie-Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette. Lafayette carried prized cargo -- news from King Louis XVI that France was throwing men, guns and treasure behind the Colonies, according to a historical summary on L'Hermione's website. Lafayette, who had been wounded in the Revolutionary War had gone back to his homeland to lobby on behalf of Washington, who was also one of his close friends. Lafayette rejoined the fight on the front lines in Virginia, while L'Hermione did sea battle with its 32 guns against the English farther north. Its coppered bottom was an innovation that made it cut faster through the waters. In Chesapeake Bay, it joined the blockade that led the British to surrender. After the war, Lafayette returned to live in France. More than 200 years later, in 1997, a group of people came up with the idea of reconstructing the frigate using the same building methods applied in the original. They claim the replica is the ``most authentically built Tall Ship in the last 150 years.''. After a year of testing, it set sail Saturday to retrace Lafayette's journey, 235 years after the original, and France gave it a sendoff with the trappings of an act of state. ``L'Hermione is a luminous episode of our history. She is a champion of universal values, freedom, courage and of the friendship between France and the United States,'' French President Francois Hollande said in a speech. President Obama, in a letter to congratulate the launch, called France ``our Nation's oldest ally.''. ``For more than two centuries, the United States and France have stood united in the freedom we owe to one another,'' he wrote. L'Hermione will ply across the Atlantic for 27 days en route to Yorktown, Virginia, where it plans to arrive in early June. After that, it will show itself off in 12 ports along the East Coast. It should be in New York City for the Fourth of July, possibly sharing Independence Day fireworks with the Statue of Liberty. Since 1886, that gift from France -- also a reminder of our common bond -- has been America's quintessential national symbol of freedom.
( CNN ) Countries around the world have launched massive aid operations to help victims of the Nepal earthquake, but distribution of aid faces challenges as Nepal is still trying to come to terms with the scale of the disaster. With over 4,400 dead, 8,000 injured and 8 million people across Nepal affected, numerous aid groups and at least 16 nations have rushed to send supplies and workers to the stricken country. But now the Nepalese government and army who are leading the disaster response face another problem : How to effectively coordinate and organize the massive influx of humanitarian aid. Here are three major obstacles that are hampering efforts of distribution. Nepal relies on only one international airport to receive and deliver aid. Relief organizations say the tarmac at Tribhuvan International Airport remains jam-packed with a large number of cargo planes. Several aircraft carrying essential supplies have been turned away, or diverted to India and elsewhere. ``The airport is totally congested. Even the planes which have landed, goods haven't been offloaded,'' Jagan Chapagain, the Asia Pacific Director of the IFRC ( International Federations of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies ) told CNN. Flightradar24, a live air traffic monitor, shows that incoming flights have had to circle in the air several times before being able to land. The United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination ( UNDAC ) team who is on the ground coordinating international relief efforts says they are doing all they can to address the problem. ``There are lots of flights arriving from around the world for search and rescue, and that's the challenge we're trying to address by supporting the airport staff directly,'' said Marcus Werne, a UNDAC team leader. But Chapagain says that airport management is still chaotic, with staff and military not being able to clear runways and offload supplies effectively. According to a U.N. situation report, main roads in Kathmandu are open, but remote areas are largely inaccessible. ``Due to the mountainous geography, infrastructure damage, collapsed bridges and damaged roads, access to many of the affected areas is reported to be extremely limited,'' read the report. The Nepalese government has not been able to provide relief to all affected areas due to difficulties in transporting goods, a government official told CNN. ``The helicopters are small. They don't fly in windy and cloudy conditions. Given Nepal's geographical terrain we can not use surface transport much but we are using it,'' said Sagar Mani Parajuli, the Joint Secretary for Nepal's Home Ministry. The situation has deteriorated to the point where relief workers are as good as stranded. Pirtha Raj Joshi, a disaster management officer for Nepal Red Cross, had to walk 10 hours to reach a office in one of the severely affected districts, said Chapagain. Initial reports from the IFRC say that over 36,000 houses have been totally destroyed, with the number expected to rise as teams arriving in severely affected areas continue to assess damages. Just two days after the earthquake struck, Nepalese authorities leading the response are still trying to fully understand which areas have been affected, how they are affected and what the priorities are. ``Typically what we see, also in other emergencies, is that it takes a few days for supply lines, distribution lines to stabilize,'' UNDAC's Werne told CNN. ``Right now we're working with a lot of secondary data, and working on some of the key vulnerable areas identified prior to the earthquake,'' he added. The operation to get aid to survivors in Nepal is still ``very ad hoc'' and it will be a few days before the distribution becomes organized because the government is still constrained by the scale of the disaster, says Chapagain. CNN's Manesh Shrestha in Kathmandu, and Bex Wright and Jethro Mullen in Hong Kong, contributed to this report.
( CNN ) There's a stampede of investigators in California. The FBI said Friday that it will investigate whether civil rights were violated during the videotaped beating of a suspect in San Bernardino. The suspect allegedly fled by car, foot and horseback when law enforcement officers tried to arrest him. Earlier Friday, San Bernardino Sheriff John McMahon said criminal investigations have begun into the actions of deputies as well as the suspect. In addition, an internal investigation has been launched. Ten deputies identified as being involved in the case have been put on paid administrative leave, McMahon said Friday. In video captured by cameras aboard a helicopter for KNBC, deputies gather around the man after he falls from a horse he was riding to flee from them. The video shows deputies using a stun gun on him and then repeatedly kicking and hitting him. KNBC reported that the man -- identified by authorities as Francis Pusok -- appeared to be kicked 17 times, punched 37 times and hit with a baton four times. Pusok was later hospitalized, KNBC reported, citing authorities. ``The video surrounding this arrest is disturbing and I have ordered an internal investigation be conducted immediately,'' McMahon said in a statement. ``What I saw on the television was thugs beating up my client,'' said Jim Terrell, Pusok's family attorney, according to CNN affiliate KCAL. ``That's what I saw. And these questions about what was he doing ? What did they do ? This is far worse than Rodney King.''. The ACLU of Southern California issued a statement Friday saying that it was ``deeply troubled'' by the images. ``While we applaud Sheriff John McMahon's prompt decision to investigate the disturbing actions of his deputies, we believe more is needed,'' the organization said. ``Too often the department has failed to address questions, including those raised by the ACLU SoCal, about use of force and Taser policies.''. Coming soon : An app to report police brutality. The Thursday afternoon incident began when deputies tried to serve a search warrant in an identity-theft investigation, according to the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department. Pusok fled in a vehicle, and deputies pursued him through the unincorporated area of Apple Valley, the town of Apple Valley and farther into the unincorporated area of Hesperia, the sheriff's office said in a news release. Pusok abandoned his vehicle and fled on foot into steep, rugged terrain, with deputies pursing with off-highway vehicles and helicopters, the sheriff's office said. ``Within minutes, deputies received information that the suspect came into contact with a group of people near the Deep Creek Hot Springs and stole a horse. He fled on horseback on dirt trails, through very rugged, steep terrain, causing numerous injuries to the horse,'' the sheriff's office said. A helicopter dropped deputies onto the ground, and as they approached Pusok to make the arrest, he was thrown from the horse, the sheriff's office said. The sheriff's office said a Taser was used on Pusok but was ineffective because of his loose clothing. A deputy was injured when the horse Pusok had been riding kicked him, the Sheriff's Department said. Two other deputies were treated for dehydration. The incident comes amid heightened scrutiny of police use of force after the 2014 deaths of Eric Garner in New York and Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and the recent shooting of Walter Scott in South Carolina. In the California case, the FBI said the results of its investigation will be forwarded to the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Central District of California and Justice Department in Washington to determine whether prosecution is warranted. Did police use excessive force ? 3 cases in the spotlight. CNN's Sam Stringer and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
Seoul ( CNN ) In the first few days after the Sewol disappeared beneath the Yellow Sea, divers pulled body after body from the watery wreckage, bringing the dead home. And throughout the following days, weeks and months, Park Eun-mi waited to see if one of them was her 16-year-old daughter, Huh Da-yun. The divers stopped searching months ago because of the winter and water conditions, and the South Korean ferry remains on the bottom of the sea floor. The Sewol sank on April 16, killing 304 people, mostly high school students who were on their way to a field trip to Jeju island, off South Korea's southern coast. ``We kept waiting with belief in finding our daughter. I thought once, `Somebody will be the last person and what if it's Da-yun ?''' Park said. A year later, Park's life remains at a standstill. Nine have yet to be found. ``We, the families of the missing victims, are still living the day -- April 16, 2014,'' said Park, who is in poor health, but refusing treatment. ``I can not think about anything except to find my daughter and other missing people.''. Park's case is an unsettling one -- emblematic of what remains unresolved a year after the Sewol ferry sank. Dozens associated with the ferry disaster have been sent to jail on criminal charges. But families say the underlying problems that led to the sinking of the Sewol are far from resolved. On April 16, the Sewol ferry, carrying hundreds of high school students, began sinking after taking a sharp turn. Passengers were told repeatedly by the crew members to stay where they were as rescuers would arrive soon. Many of them listened to the instructions and remained in place. As the ferry tilted sideways, water seeped in and objects in the ship toppled over, injuring people and blocking their way out. Anger over how the crew failed to evacuate the passengers intensified when video surfaced of the ferry's captain in his underwear leaping into the arms of the Korean Coast Guard while hundreds remained trapped in the vessel. Divers had to pluck the bodies from the water one-by-one, bringing the youngsters back to land in black body bags where they were met with the gut-wrenching cries of their families. On Thursday, the one year anniversary of the disaster, South Korea's President Park Geun-hye called for the salvage of the Sewol's wreck ``as soon as possible.''. ``Recently, there was an announcement that it is technically possible to salvage Sewol ferry. I believe that it is now time to earnestly prepare to salvage,'' she said. A government study on raising the ferry released last week identified a crane and floating dock as the safest way to look for the missing. The Sewol ferry is over 20 years old and there are fears it could fall apart during the extraction, according to the South Korean Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries. The agency anticipates a complicated technical operation to remove the ferry, which would weigh about 10,200 tons above water. The process could take over a year and a half, and that it would cost the South Korean government anywhere from $ 91 million to $ 182 million. The victims' families have demanded that the ship be recovered in order to thoroughly investigate the accident. Since the days immediately after the disaster, families have criticized the government over its response. Communication over the rescue efforts were jumbled, paving way for rumors and hoaxes. Criticism swirled over the South Korean Coast Guard's effectiveness in carrying out the rescue operation. The captain of the first coast guard ship sent to rescue the Sewol passengers was found guilty of negligence and making false reports. The recovery efforts have also taken a deadly toll with a total of six deaths -- a diver searching the Sewol died in May, and in July, five people died after a helicopter carrying emergency workers involved in the operation crashed. Park, the South Korean president, pledged major reforms, dismantled the coast guard and vowed an investigation into what went wrong. That promised investigation has been hampered by politics and disagreements between the families and the government over who should participate in the investigation. Earlier this month, several dozens of family members marched to Seoul from Ansan, the suburb where most of the students had resided. Some of the families shaved their heads to demand political action. Several laws have been passed to inspect cargo weight and increase oversight in the industry. In the case of Sewol, the ferry was found to be loaded with double its capacity. Its cargo wasn't secured properly, which threw the ship off balance as the containers tumbled and knocked the vessel off balance. An inexperienced crew and redesigns of the ship to handle more passengers and cargo were also cited as factors in the disaster. The sinking spurred a debate about the shortcomings of the government and what preventive measures should have been taken. ``The tragedy of Sewol was also virtually caused by accumulation of corruption, irregularity and going blind eyes,'' Park said on Thursday. ``Corruption and deep-rooted evil are issues that can lead to taking away people's lives. We take this very seriously.''. In the immediate aftermath, South Korean prosecutors arrested the captain, crew members and business associates. Sewol's captain, Lee Joon-seok, who was widely derided for jumping to safety, was sentenced to 36 years in prison for abandonment causing death and injury, and violating sea laws. In July, the body of a billionaire Yoo Byung Eun, who was believed to have connections to the company that owned the ferry, was found decomposing in a plum field. But some families say that wider, systematic problems that allowed the disaster to occur haven't been addressed. Whether the ferry will be raised and an independent investigation will be held remains to be seen. CNN's KJ Kwon and journalist Jungeun Kim contributed to this report in Seoul.
( CNN ) A large storm system dubbed Typhoon Maysak is churning over the Pacific Ocean, days away from a possible direct hit on the Philippines. Maysak is moving west-northwest after skirting the Federated States of Micronesia, according to the U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center. Its eye is projected to make landfall in the central or northern part of the Philippine island of Luzon on Sunday, though the country's residents could start feeling its effects days before. That could interrupt the Easter celebration for many in the predominantly Catholic nation, which may be socked by heavy rains and potent winds. The International Red Cross noted that ``many people are expected to throng coastal areas at this time.''. Images of the typhoon as seen from the International Space Station were posted to Twitter, including a Vine video showing the swirling eye of the storm. The storm has weakened and is expected to lose more strength before it reaches the Philippines. Its maximum sustained winds on Wednesday were 150 mph, making it a super typhoon in the Joint Typhoon Warning Center's definition. But by Thursday, the winds' strength had declined to around 132 mph -- no longer a super typhoon but still the equivalent of a Category 4 hurricane. Meteorologist Ivan Cabrera told CNN that Maysak could weaken further to become a tropical storm by the time it reaches the Philippine coast. ``This will not be a catastrophic storm,'' Cabrera said. That said, it could still cause flooding and bring strong winds, he cautioned. The Philippines is frequently hit by typhoons. In December, for instance, Hagupit killed at least 18 people in the East Asian nation and injured hundreds more. But that devastation paled in comparison to the havoc wrought by Super Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013, which killed more than 6,000 people and injured more than 27,000 others. That typhoon, considered to be among the strongest storms ever to make landfall, hit the eastern city of Tacloban especially hard. The irony of the upcoming storm is its timing : in April, just after the Philippines Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration officially declared the onset of the nation's dry, or summer, season. PAGASA meteorologist Shelley Ignacio predicts Maysak -- which is called Chedeng in the Philippines -- will bring heavy rains to Luzon starting on Friday, according to the state-run Philippines News Agency. The country's National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council went on red alert on Wednesday because of the storm, the news agency reports. That alert means all relevant personnel are on standby and the public should be on guard for possible effects of the storm. CNN's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Late one night on Facebook, a girl with cystic fibrosis messaged a boy with cystic fibrosis, and both their lives were changed forever. The girl, Katie Donovan, read that the boy, Dalton Prager, was very sick. ``If you ever need a friend to talk to, you can reach out to me,'' she wrote. ``Sorry, but do I know you ?'' he responded. No, you don't, Katie wrote back, and told Dalton a bit about herself. Like him, she was 18, and ``my breathing is pretty crappy and I see you are in the hospital. I'm sorry. I know it sucks !.. But you just got ta stay strong.''. Messages between the two flew back and forth. They realized they were falling in love. For most other couples, the next step would be to meet in person. But for Katie and Dalton, that was complicated -- and dangerous. Cystic fibrosis patients shouldn't be near each other because they can share infections that could cripple their already fragile lungs. Dr. Michael Anstead at the University of Kentucky, Katie's pulmonologist since she was a little girl, had lectured her many times that face-to-face meetings with other CF patients were a bad idea. In their online conversations, one of the first things Dalton told Katie about himself was that he had Burkholderia cepacia, a horribly dangerous infection for people with CF. ``I was like, `Hi, I'm Dalton from Missouri and I have Burkholderia cepacia,' because it's such a big deal in the CF community,'' he remembers. ``I left the decision about whether we should meet up completely up to her.''. Katie listened to her heart, even if it might hurt her lungs. She asked Dalton to come visit her in Flemingsburg, Kentucky. ``I told Dalton I'd rather be happy -- like really, really happy -- for five years of my life and die sooner than be mediocre happy and live for twenty years,'' Katie says. ``That was definitely something I had to think about, but when you have those feelings, you just know.''. So on August 28, 2009, Dalton drove more than six hours from St. Charles, Missouri, to Katie's hometown in Flemingsburg, Kentucky, where they'd arranged to meet at the Dairy Queen. At 7:10 pm -- they remember the time precisely -- Katie got out of her car and saw Dalton leaning against a brick wall looking cool and handsome in his sunglasses. ``My heart was racing, but I just went right up to him and hugged and kissed him on the mouth without even saying hello,'' she remembers. ``I'm usually not that kind of girl, but it just felt so right.''. Katie took Dalton and his mother, Renee, who'd made the trip with him, to have dinner with her and her parents, Debbie and John Donovan. Later the young couple drove around Flemingsburg, and Dalton gave her a necklace for her nineteenth birthday, which was two days before. Their health quickly deteriorated, and within months, the new husband and wife went on oxygen full time. Too ill to work, Dalton quit his job at his family's auto repair shop, and Katie quit hers as a store clerk. In August, 2014, the couple entered the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center together to wait for new lungs. Dalton's came first, and on November 17, he had his transplant. Despite his Burkholderia cepacia, which makes transplants more complicated, it was a success. ``I was so thrilled. I was so happy for him,'' Katie says. The month after Dalton's surgery, UPMC discharged Katie -- she says they told her it would be psychologically good for her to get out for a while. When she had serious trouble breathing three days later she tried to get back into the hospital, but UPMC informed her she'd used up her supply of Medicare days and wouldn't accept her. Medicare -- the federal insurance program for the elderly and for anyone with disabilities -- wouldn't pay for another hospitalization until Katie had been out of the hospital for sixty days. But Katie was too sick to stay out of the hospital for six days, much less sixty. So Katie relied on Medicaid, public insurance that was supplied by her home state of Kentucky. She was admitted to the University of Kentucky Hospital, where she was cared for by Anstead, her beloved pulmonologist. But then, another hurdle. Anstead explained that most lung transplant centers, including the two in Kentucky, don't do transplants on patients with Burkholderia cepacia, referring them to larger centers like UPMC that have more experience with such complicated cases. Katie and Dalton, now 24 and 23, were desperate. Her doctors predicted she wouldn't live a year without new lungs. Going on her husband's private insurance wasn't an option, since Dalton is on his father's policy. In February, Anstead wrote a letter to Medicaid, pleading with them to make an exception and pay for Katie's care at UPMC, even though it was out of state. Kentucky Medicaid denied his plea, and that's when the squabbling began. In a statement to CNN, a spokeswoman for the Kentucky Cabinet for Health and Family Services pointed the finger at UPMC, saying the medical center had declined to enroll as a Kentucky Medicaid provider. ``Medicaid policies allow for a simplified enrollment process for out-of-state providers in such situations,'' wrote the spokeswoman, Gwenda Bond. ``Should UPMC reverse its decision and choose to enroll as a Kentucky Medicaid provider, the Department for Medicaid Services.. will be happy to expedite their application.''. UPMC counters that Kentucky Medicaid told them that if they want to care for Katie, they would have to sign up hundreds of their doctors to accept Kentucky Medicaid patients. While UPMC spokeswoman Wendy Zellner didn't elaborate, a hospital might be loathe to sign up for large-scale coverage of out-of-state Medicaid patients as payments under such programs are typically very low. Asking for hundreds of doctors to sign up to take Kentucky Medicaid is ``an unusually restrictive approach and contrary to single-case agreements that we have signed with other state Medicaid programs,'' Zellner wrote. ``UPMC wants to help Katie, and our physicians and staff have done everything possible to make that happen.. It is up to Kentucky Medicaid to address this situation.''. Today, Katie waits in limbo in her hospital bed, hoping that the three parties -- Medicare, Medicaid, and UPMC -- will work things out so she can get her new lungs. ``I feel like they're putting a dollar sign on my life,'' she says. ``I don't want to die because of money. That's stupid. Nobody should have to do that.''. If Katie doesn't get her transplant, not only will she die, but she'll never be near her husband again because of the risk that she could give him her infection, which could be deadly for him as he's on drugs to suppress his immune system. As a result of inquiries from CNN, on Wednesday Aaron Albright, the director of the media relations group at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services arranged for a caseworker to call Katie at the hospital. But it didn't go very well. Katie says the caller, who identified herself as Pat Pierorazio, was ``rude, mean, and angry.''. ``She said someone had told her to call me, and she acted like it was just a pain to have to be talking to me,'' she says. Katie says the Medicare representative told her she would look into her situation. In a statement, Albright with CMS wrote to CNN : ``We are working quickly to fully understand this difficult and complex situation so that this patient can get the care she needs. CMS is reaching out to the state agency to find a solution as soon as possible.''. Caught in the middle between the hospital and insurance, Katie tries to stay strong, just as she advised her husband to do nearly six years ago in their first Facebook conversation. Skyping with Dalton helps, and raising money on their Facebook page keeps her mind busy. And she's always thinking about their ``after transplant bucket list,'' which they keep in a safe in their house so it won't be destroyed by fire or flood. On the list : Drive through every state. Learn another language and visit a country where they speak it. Write a book together about their love story. They have simpler dreams as well. Like going grocery shopping together, or sitting side by side on the couch to watch television. And this is their biggest goal :. ``I just want to make it to see our four year anniversary in July and be able to hold hands and just hug. That's all I really want -- to be able to hug my husband on our fourth anniversary,'' she says. Wednesday afternoon, there were signs of hope. Zeller, the UPMC spokeswoman, sent an email to CNN. ``Ky Medicaid has reached out to us to talk. So stay tuned,'' she wrote. Katie and Dalton were glad to hear it. ``I don't care what I have to do to get her lungs,'' Dalton said. ``I will just keep trying until there's nothing left to try.''
( CNN ) When ISIS overran their villages near Mosul in August 2014, a small group of Assyrians, a Middle Eastern minority with a history reaching back more than 4,000 years, picked up weapons and formed their own militia : Dwekh Nawsha -- ``The Sacrificers.''. Assyrians belong to the rapidly dwindling Christian population of Iraq -- recent estimates from CAPNI, the largest Christian relief organization in northern Iraq put the number as low as 300,000 compared with 1.5 million 20 years ago -- and many among them see the fight with ISIS as a final battle for survival against the Islamists. '' `Ah, Assyrians -- I've read about them in the Bible,' is what many people say,'' says Marcus Naissan, a 25-year-old electrical technician and member of Dwekh Nawsha. ``But we are not just history, we are still alive, we are still here.''. The exodus of Christians from Iraq started prior to ISIS -- and the civil war in the mid-2000s took an especially heavy toll. Today, most Iraqi Christians live in Kurdish areas in the north, which have been a relative haven of stability. And so far, the Kurds have been taking heavy losses to defend Christian and Yezidi minorities against ISIS. Every night, the fighters hear the rumbling sound of coalition airplanes in the sky over Baqufa where they have their safe house just a few miles from the frontline. Here they relax, patrol the empty streets of the village and try to hinder ISIS suicide commandos from entering the near city of Dohuk where UNHCR says almost 100,000 refugees -- many of them Christians -- have found a temporary place to stay. So far, the militia has only assembled and trained 40 fighters. But Rama Baito, manager of the digital media presence of the group, shows me his direct messages on Facebook -- dozens of ex-soldiers, diaspora Assyrians or Christian activists from all over the world contact him and offer monetary support or their own presence on the frontline. ``We have 200 people waiting right now, because we simply do not have enough weapons and training capacities,'' Baito says. Since they are still small and have no heavy weaponry, the Dwekh Nawsha fighters say they coordinate closely with local Kurdish Peshmerga commanders and share the same foxholes on the frontline. The fighters are a very mixed bunch. A young baker, carrying his large military dagger in an elegant sheath, says he brought his father when he enlisted. ``But now, we see each other only rarely because he is in another unit of our group,'' he says. ``When I go on vacation, he goes to the field and the other way around. So every time we swap units, I wait for him, give him a quick hug and then leave back home.''. Right now, ISIS is focused on other fronts -- the yellow fields of the Niniveh plains are quite safe for the mostly young fighters. But none of them thinks victory over ISIS will be quick, nor that fighting will end immediately afterward. All they can do now is patrol the deserted alleys of Baqufa, making sure the wild dogs don't take over the town and hope one day their relatives will be able to return.
Ferguson, Missouri ( CNN ) Change has come to Ferguson. After months of turmoil and upheaval, months of frustration and anger, the beleaguered city has a new governing board. And it looks very different than the old one. Buoyed by a higher-than-normal 30 % turnout, two African-American candidates won their wards Tuesday night to make the six-member City Council 50 % black. Ferguson's population of about 21,000 is 70 % black, but the City Council was predominantly white, as is the police force. Supporters of both candidates said that from the tragedy of a young black man's death, a new day dawned in Ferguson. Ella Jones screamed when her victory became official late Tuesday night. She won 49.76 % of the vote. ``Thank you, Ward 1. I love you,'' an emotional Jones said at a party held at Drake's restaurant. She will become the first black woman ever to sit on the Ferguson council. But both Jones and Wesley Bell, who won the Ward 3 seat with nearly 67 % of the vote, said they did not see their victories from a racial perspective. Jones, who resigned her job as a Mary Kay cosmetics sales director to run for office, said in her ward, she heard the same complaints from a 65-year-old black man as she did from his white peers. ``My job is to be that catalyst so we can put a new face on Ferguson,'' she said. Bell, a lawyer and criminal justice professor, said, ``I'm more interested in having quality on the council,'' when asked about the change in its racial makeup. He had made community policing his No. 1 priority and said he intends to be deeply involved with the hiring of a new police chief in this St. Louis suburb. The former chief, Tommy Jackson, resigned after a scathing U.S. Department of Justice report found systemic discrimination against African-Americans in law enforcement and the municipal court. Bell said he wants Ferguson's police officers to be judged by the number of people they know in the community, not by the number of tickets they issue. One other seat was up for grabs in Ferguson. That was won by Brian Fletcher, a former mayor who launched the ``I Love Ferguson'' campaign to raise money for mom-and-pop businesses that were hurt by the violence and vandalism during the protests last fall. Fletcher beat his opponent, Bob Hudgins, with 56.7 % of the vote. Fletcher told voters he was best suited for a City Council job despite his critics' claims that he was too entrenched in the old guard. ``I understand that feeling, but those individuals don't know me,'' he said. Fletcher said he had contacts with elected officials from his almost three decades in politics. That would be an invaluable asset in getting Ferguson back on its feet, he said. The city is required to approve a new budget by the end of June, and the new council will have to look for alternative sources of revenue to replace the $ 3 million or so lost from money generated by traffic tickets and fines. ``That amount will drop significantly,'' Fletcher said. Earlier in the day, the skies grew dark and the radio crackled with warnings of flash floods. Amid the rain, Ferguson opened its polls at 6 in the morning with concern that few would come out to vote in such a pivotal election. But Tuesday was different. It was the first city election since white police Officer Darren Wilson shot and killed unarmed black teenager Michael Brown in August. There was dread, especially in the African-American community, that if the turnout was low, then all the protests, investigations and calls for change would have been in vain. The candidates who had run campaigns calling for change hoped a decent turnout would weigh in their favor. ``That is what our democracy about,'' Bell said. Bell ran against Lee Smith, a retired electrical plant employee, in Ward 3, which includes Canfield Drive, where Brown was killed, and the West Florissant Avenue business corridor that felt the brunt of the protests and the vandalism. Charred, heavily damaged buildings still stand as scars of Ferguson's despair and anger. ``You got your vote on ?'' yelled Tommy Chatman Bey, a Bell supporter who was distributing campaign literature at Koch Elementary School, the precinct closest to where Brown lived. Some residents did have their vote on. They felt a duty to vote this year. One of them was Yvette Bailey, 41, who works as a planner for Coca-Cola. Yes, she voted in presidential elections, but she never paid much mind to local races. Until now. Even though she was aware of the problems around her, Brown's killing, she said, woke her up. ``It made me think of all the males in my family,'' said Bailey, who lives right off Canfield Drive. She was undecided about who to vote for until the last minute when she walked into the polling station with another voter and they discussed the race. Bailey decided to cast her vote for Bell simply because he was a young man. She thought he had energy and was more in sync with Ferguson's youth. ``I think he will be more open-minded,'' she said after voting. Changing the way Ferguson polices its people was No. 1 on many a voter's agenda. Even the candidates who take issue with the Department of Justice report on Ferguson agreed that the city needed change when it came to policing. ``We have to get out of this law enforcement for business,'' said candidate Doyle McClellan, coordinator of the computer network security program at Lewis and Clark Community College. McClellan referred to the DOJ's finding that Ferguson issued fines and traffic tickets to generate revenue for the city. ``That's not a good thing,'' McClellan said as he stood in the drizzle at a polling station, hoping to persuade voters who were still undecided. Ted Heidemann, a 67-year-old retired airline pilot, said he voted for Fletcher. If some residents saw Fletcher as part of the problem, Heidemann asked why no one complained when Fletcher was mayor. He said Brown's shooting brought a lot of bad things to light. ``We didn't realize the effect some of the institutional problems had on poor people,'' he said. ``Some things need to be changed, and we are aware of that.''. By midafternoon, Fletcher said the numbers were looking good. At a church where voters from all three wards were casting ballots, Fletcher predicted a 40 % -50 % turnout. When the rain let up for a few minutes, a stream of voters trickled into the First Presbyterian Church in downtown Ferguson to cast their votes. Ellory and Kathy Glenn both voted for Fletcher's opponent, Hudgins, a political novice who attracted attention as a white man who routinely stood with protesters on the front lines. Hudgins likes to talk about how he married a black woman and has a biracial teenage son. ``I wanted change,'' said Ellory Glenn, 60, who is black. His wife is white. He said the couple moved to Ferguson after he retired from the Marine Corps in 1995 because they felt it was a racially welcoming place. But now, after all the problems rose to the surface, it's time for fresh blood on the council, Glenn said. ``Quit using law enforcement as a revenue stream,'' Glenn said. ``That's like using the military to go into places and looting them. The police are supposed to keep order.''. Angela Jackson came to vote with her husband and two little girls in tow. She voted for Jones, the former Mary Kay cosmetics sales director. Jackson echoed the thoughts of other Ferguson residents who experienced something new in this election : candidates coming to their door. Past elections have not seen the kind of canvassing activity that took place in the last few weeks. Nor have past municipal elections drawn so much media attention. ``One thing we really liked is ( Jones ) came to our door and talked to us about her desire to make change in our neighborhood,'' Jackson said. ``She's going to be hands on. She lives in the neighborhood as well and has for the past 36 years. We were kind of taken by that.''. The rain began to fall again as the Glenns got in their car. It was expected to continue off and on through the day and night. But at about 5, just when many voters were leaving work, the sun shone brilliantly. Overheard at one precinct : Good weather brought out the worst in Ferguson last August. Maybe today, it would bring out the best.
( CNN ) Pope Francis risked Turkish anger on Sunday by using the word ``genocide'' to refer to the mass killings of Armenians a century ago under the Ottoman Empire. ``In the past century, our human family has lived through three massive and unprecedented tragedies,'' the Pope said at a Mass at St. Peter's Basilica to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Armenian massacres. ``The first, which is widely considered `the first genocide of the 20th century,' struck your own Armenian people,'' he said, referencing a 2001 declaration by Pope John Paul II and the head of the Armenian church. His use of the term genocide -- even though he was quoting from the declaration -- upset Turkey. The nation recalled its ambassador to the Vatican for ``consultations'' just hours after Francis' comments, the Turkish Foreign Ministry said. Earlier, Turkey summoned the ambassador from the Vatican for a meeting, Turkish state broadcaster TRT reported. Turkey's former ambassador to the Vatican, Kenan Gursoy, told CNN in a telephone interview that while it is the first time Turkey has summoned its ambassador home from the Vatican, ``This does not mean that our diplomatic ties with the Vatican are over.''. ``Since this is a situation that we do not approve of, as a first reaction, ( the ambassador ) is summoned to get consultation,'' Gursoy said, adding that the Pope's use of the word ``genocide'' was ``a one-sided evaluation.''. In a tweet Sunday on his official account, Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu called the Pope's use of the word ``unacceptable'' and ``out of touch with both historical facts and legal basis.''. ``Religious offices are not places through which hatred and animosity are fueled by unfounded allegations,'' the tweet reads. This consternation over the use of the word `genocide' occurs regularly. And Armenians are equally upset, when Turkey protests it. Armenian Foreign Minister Edward Nalbandian rebuked Turkey. ``We are in a situation in which Turkey speaks a different language from the rest of the international community and it seems that it doesn't understand that it is speaking a different language,'' he said to Italian News Agency Adnkronos. ``During these past days there have been several international organizations that adopt resolutions or issue statements that recognize the Armenian genocide and that appeal to Turkey to make this step,'' he said. ``The Pope's statement are in this context of universal value. When Turkey is able to understand this, it will be able to understand what the International community and big personalities ( or better translations `leaders' ) are saying.''. Armenian groups and many scholars say that Turks planned and carried out genocide, starting in 1915, when more than a million ethnic Armenians were massacred in the final years of the Ottoman Empire. Turkey officially denies that a genocide took place, saying hundreds of thousands of Armenian Christians and Turkish Muslims died in intercommunal violence around the bloody battlefields of World War I. The Armenian government and influential Armenian diaspora groups have urged countries around the world to formally label the 1915 events as genocide. Turkey has responded with pressure of its own against such moves. Pope Francis said Sunday that ``Catholic and Orthodox Syrians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Greeks'' were also killed in the bloodshed a century ago. He said Nazism and Stalinism were responsible for the other two ``massive and unprecedented tragedies'' of the past century. CNN's Gul Tuysuz in Turkey, Nimet Kirac and Karen Smith in Atlanta contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The stark video of a South Carolina officer gunning down an apparently unarmed black man as he ran away with his back to police has prompted an equally fast-moving reaction by officials and the public alike. The video is being dissected frame by frame by authorities and media outlets, all in an effort to reconstruct what exactly happened between North Charleston police Officer Michael Slager, a five-year employee of that force, and Walter Scott, 50. Slager, 33, was charged Tuesday with first-degree murder after firing eight shots at Scott, killing him. Slager is also now ``terminated'' from the force, North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey said Wednesday. Added police Chief Eddie Driggers on Wednesday : ``I watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw and I have not watched it since.''. Both Scott and Slager had once served in the U.S. Coast Guard, with Scott's service occurring 1984-86 and Slager's 2003-09. Scott was a father of four. Slager is a father to two stepchildren, and his wife is eight months' pregnant. Here's what we know of the fatal shooting :. Slager pulled Scott over at 9:33 a.m. Saturday for a broken taillight, according to authorities. Chief Driggers described the incident as ``traffic stop of an individual who had a minor infraction on his vehicle, a brake light being out.''. A foot chase then occurred, a police report said. The video, taken by a passer-by, doesn't show any vehicle. Rather, Slager and Scott are on a path or roadway in a parklike setting bordered partly by a chain-link fence. The video was shot over and through the fence. ``The officer said that Walter ran from the vehicle during the traffic stop,'' Scott family attorney L. Chris Stewart said. According to the police report, Scott did not comply with the officer's demands. Scott's brother, Anthony Scott, said his brother had trouble with child support and had an outstanding warrant against him, but that his sibling wasn't prone to violence. ``That very well could have been the reason ( for running from police ), not to be arrested for the warrant that was on him for child support,'' Anthony Scott said. The video begins by showing a second or two of an apparent struggle between the officer and suspect. The officer contended he used a Taser stun gun on Scott and that Scott tried to take that weapon, authorities said. But when Anthony Scott saw the video, he was convinced the officer lied, he told CNN. ``There was not a struggle for the Taser,'' Anthony Scott said. ``I didn't believe my brother would have done that anyway.''. The video shows Walter Scott running away, with his back to the officer. As he does so, two objects fall. One falls behind the officer. And the other falls between the two men. To Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was ``running for his life'' away from the officer to escape more of the Taser. ``I think my brother was thinking he was not going to be shot. No one would have thought that,'' Scott said. As Walter Scott runs away, the officer pulls his service pistol and fires eight times, the video shows. As the shots are being fired, Scott keeps running away from the officer, the video shows. Scott then falls. Later in the video, when the officer approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man. It's not clear whether it is the Taser. It's also unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser, or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body. Immediately after Scott was shot, according to the video, someone yells, ``Put your hands behind your back !''. Scott, motionless and face-down on the ground, is handcuffed. It was Slager who apparently called police dispatch. ``226 to dispatch, shots fired, subject is down. He grabbed my Taser,'' Slager told the dispatcher, according to a transcript provide by Broadcastify.com. The dispatcher notes that the subject is down at 9:38 a.m., according to the transcript. About 90 seconds after saying that Scott ``grabbed'' his Taser, the officer describes Scott as unresponsive and having wounds to the chest, right thigh and buttocks, according to the transcript. The location of the shooting is behind a pawn shop, the officer tells the dispatcher. A police report identified that shop as Mega Pawn. According to CNN affiliate WCIV-TV in Charleston, Slager initially said through his attorney, David Aylor, that he followed the appropriate policies and procedures. However, Aylor later told CNN that he was no longer representing the officer. ``Today, I withdrew my representation of Michael Slager. This is a terrible tragedy that has impacted our community,'' Aylor said in a statement. Later, Anthony Scott's mother calls him and says his brother was Tasered at a traffic stop. Anthony Scott goes to the scene and finds it curious to see police tape around his brother's vehicle and the officer's vehicle. He asks officers what happened. No one replies. Then Anthony Scott's nephew tells him that ``my brother is gone,'' Anthony Scott said. ``And at that, I lost it,'' Anthony Scott said. An officer also apprises him later of what happened. Anthony Scott is shown the video for the first time on Sunday. ``My reaction to it was that we have to get ahold of the video and that this was key evidence, key evidence in the case,'' Anthony Scott said. ``We had to get it. The country had to see this.''. He felt ``a little bit of anger and happy at the same time,'' the brother said. ``Based on what the video was showing, it was discrediting what the officer had initially stated,'' Anthony Scott said. The nation did indeed see the video -- and was stunned by its revelations. Authorities saw it, too. Slager was denied bail at a bond hearing Tuesday night, WCIV reported. ``I have two stepchildren and one on the way,'' Slager told a magistrate through video conferencing. If found guilty of murder, Slager could face up to life in prison or death. The city of North Charleston will continue to cover the insurance for the pregnancy of Slager's wife, the mayor said. An autopsy on Scott, performed Sunday, ``revealed that Mr. Scott sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the back of his body and the manner of death was ruled `Homicide,''' Charleston County Coroner Rae H. Wooten said Wednesday. Anthony Scott said Wednesday that his brother was ``shot in the back four times.''. The autopsy findings support family's claims that the police used excessive use -- even if the video never existed, Anthony Scott said. ``Eventually we would have gotten to this point, but not this fast,'' Anthony Scott said. ``There is absolutely no way to cover that up,'' he added about the gunshot wounds to the back. North Charleston police aren't involved in the investigation into the shooting and have turned the matter over to the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division. The FBI is also investigating. Anthony Scott and family attorney Stewart believe the object that Officer Slager relocated at the crime scene is the Taser, they said. Stewart also accused the officer of trying to plant evidence by moving the Taser and placing it close to Walter Scott's body. A slow-motion analysis of the tape, along with highlights of key moments, supports the family's step-by-step interpretation of the officer's actions, including the handling of the Taser, the attorney alleged. ``He drops the Taser, kills Mr. Scott, walks all the way back, picks something up off the ground from where he was taking the shots, comes back to the body, waits a second, drops it on the ground, and then pretends to be recovering it and putting it back on his holster,'' Stewart said, referring to the Taser. ``Why we believe that is because it fits in line with his initial report of what happened out there. I mean he just committed a murder. He needed something, a justifiable reason to use lethal force, and that's the only thing he could think of,'' Stewart said. Neither Officer Slager or his attorney could be reached for comment Wednesday. Authorities aren't commenting on the details of the case while it's under investigation. CNN's Ashley Fantz, Holly Yan, Ryan Scallan, Tristan Smith, Martin Savidge, Dana Ford, Sam Stringer, Randi Kaye, Chandler Friedman, Evan Perez, Don Lemon, Steve Brusk, John Newsome, Tony Marco and Christie Bear contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Noelle Velentzas, 28, couldn't understand why U.S. citizens like herself were traveling overseas to wage jihad when they could simply ``make history'' at home by unleashing terrorist attacks, according to a federal criminal complaint unsealed Thursday. Velentzas and her former roommate, 31-year-old Asia Siddiqui, were arrested and accused of planning to build an explosive device for attacks in the United States, federal prosecutors said. Siddiqui is also a U.S. citizen. The complaint paints a picture of a disturbing trend in homegrown violent extremism. Siddiqui had repeated contact with members of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, published jihad-themed poems in magazines affiliated with the terror group and possessed propane gas tanks along with instructions on turning them into explosive devices, the complaint said. One day, Velentzas pulled a knife from her bra and showed Siddiqui what do with it if attacked, according to the complaint. ``Why can't we be some real bad bitches ?'' asked Velentzas, adding that people needed to refer to them as ``citizens of the Islamic State.''. Velentzas and Siddiqui did not enter pleas when they appeared in federal court in Brooklyn on Thursday. They were held without bond and ordered to appear on May 4. Thomas Dunn, attorney for Siddiqui, said outside court that his client intends to plead not guilty. ``She and I will address everything in court,'' he said. ``We're going to fight it out in court.''. If convicted, the women face a maximum sentence of life in prison. In the past 18 months, the Justice Department's National Security Division has prosecuted or is prosecuting more than 30 cases of people attempting to travel abroad to join or provide support to terrorist groups. Of those cases, 18 allegedly involve support to ISIS. ``Given how the terrorist threat to the world is evolving, how the potential terrorist threat to our nation is evolving, homeland security is becoming a matter of `hometown security,''' Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson told reporters Thursday. ``The terrorist threat is more decentralized, more diffuse, more complicated. It involves the potential lone wolf actor, it involves the effective use of social media, the Internet.''. In December, Velentzas and an undercover agent discussed the shooting deaths of two New York City police officers who were ambushed in Brooklyn. The shootings demonstrated how easy it is to kill a cop, she said. ``Killing a police officer is easier than buying food,'' she is quoted as saying in the complaint, ``because sometimes one has to wait in line to buy food.''. When the undercover agent later pointed out that more than 25,000 officers had gathered for the funeral of one of the cops, Officer Rafael Ramos, Velentzas complimented the agent for ``coming up with an attractive potential target'' for a terror attack, the complaint said. Velentzas and Siddiqui repeatedly expressed support for violent jihad, the complaint said. They praised successful and unsuccessful terror attempts against Americans. ``As alleged, the defendants in this case carefully studied how to construct an explosive device to launch an attack on the homeland,'' Loretta Lynch, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said in a statement. ``We remain firm in our resolve to hold accountable anyone who would seek to terrorize the American people, whether by traveling abroad to commit attacks overseas or by plotting here at home.''. In 2009, Siddiqui wrote a poem in a magazine published by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula that urged readers to wage jihad. She declared there is no ``excuse to sit back and wait -- for the skies rain martyrdom.''. Prosecutors said the women ``researched and acquired'' components for a car bomb such as the one used in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, a fertilizer bomb such as the one used in the 1995 bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City and a pressure cooker device such as the one used in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing. Velentzas described the late al Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden as one of her heroes. She kept a photo of bin Laden holding an AK-47 as the background image on her cellphone, the complaint said. There were more opportunities of ``pleasing Allah'' by engaging in jihad on American soil, she said. In February, Velentzas and the undercover agent drove past a Home Depot in Queens. Velentzas laughed about once having told a Home Depot employee that she was having a barbecue when she was looking for propane. ``Some women like to look at clothes,'' the complaint quotes her as saying. ``I like to look at electric equipment.''. In a statement, Islamic Circle of North America said Velentzas was formerly homeless and provided shelter by the relief organization. ``She stayed for a short period of time between 2008 and 2009,'' the statement said. ``While she was staying in our shelter, our staff helped her get on her feet. During this time she successfully completed studies to become a home health care provider after which she became gainfully employed. She left the facility when she married.''. Velentzas appeared to have experienced hardship in her life but was ``working towards self-development and long-term stability,'' the statement said. ``She also appeared to be someone who had greatly benefited from the assistance ICNA Relief provides through our shelter system, so we asked her to speak about the experience of our shelter. She appeared at several fundraisers and was the subject of videos as well.''. Ashley Chung, a neighbor in Queens, said Velentzas had a young daughter and lived with her husband. ``She's a very friendly woman and I would never even expect that at all,'' Chung said when asked about the allegations. ``They're very lovely people.. It's so crazy how you live next to someone and you have no idea what they're up to.''. Thursday's arrests are part of a series of cases being built by the federal government. Last month, an Army National Guard member and his cousin were arrested in Illinois and accused of conspiring to provide material support to ISIS, federal prosecutors said. The alleged plot included a plan to attack a U.S. military installation in Illinois. Spc. Hasan Edmonds, 22, was arrested last week at Chicago Midway International Airport while attempting to travel to Egypt to eventually join ISIS, according to Assistant Attorney General for National Security John P. Carlin and other federal officials. His cousin, Jonas ``Yunus'' Edmonds, 29, was arrested at his home in Aurora, Illinois, in connection with an alleged plot to carry out an armed attack on an unspecified U.S. military facility in northern Illinois where Hasan Edmonds had been training. The two U.S. citizens were charged in criminal complaints filed in U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Illinois with one count each of conspiring to provide material support and resources to a foreign terrorist organization. In February, three New York men were arrested and accused of a failed attempt to join ISIS in Syria, prosecutors said. Abror Habibov, 30, who operated kiosks at malls along the East Coast, was arrested along with Akhror Saidakhmetov, 19, and Abdurasul Juraboev, 24, in connection with an alleged failed attempt by the two younger men to join ISIS in Syria.
( CNN ) Sabra Dipping Co. is recalling 30,000 cases of hummus due to possible contamination with Listeria, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday. The nationwide recall is voluntary. So far, no illnesses caused by the hummus have been reported. The potential for contamination was discovered when a routine, random sample collected at a Michigan store on March 30 tested positive for Listeria monocytogenes. The FDA issued a list of the products in the recall. Anyone who has purchased any of the items is urged to dispose of or return it to the store for a full refund. Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people, and others with weakened immune systems, the FDA says. Although some people may suffer only short-term symptoms such as high fever, severe headache, nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea, Listeria can also cause miscarriages and stillbirths among pregnant women.
( CNN ) Thousands of Palestinians are trapped in the devastated Yarmouk refugee camp in Syria, which has mostly been seized by groups including ISIS, activists report. The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says ISIS and the al Qaeda-affiliated Al-Nusra Front took control of 90 % of the camp in southern Damascus. Calling the lives of Yarmouk refugees ``profoundly threatened'' on Sunday, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency issued a statement urging humanitarian aid access. ``Never has the hour been more desperate in the Palestine refugee camp of Yarmouk,'' the statement said. The UNRWA estimates 18,000 civilians remain trapped in the camp that has been engulfed in fighting between the government and rebel forces since December 2012. Syria's state-run SANA news agency reports up to 2,000 people have fled in the past two days as food, water and medical supplies remain scarce. ``All people are trying to leave the camp,'' says Syrian activist Abu Mohammed in Damascus who used to live in Yarmouk. ``There is no electricity,'' says Mohammed. ``ISIS controls the hospital so injured people have nowhere to go.''. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reports barrel bombs were dropped on the camp Sunday as clashes continued. The Palestine Liberation Organization called on international bodies to assist in the evacuation of people from the camp. ``Reports of kidnappings, beheadings and mass killings are coming out from Al - Yarmouk, which is under a brutal campaign of murder and occupation,'' Palestine Liberation Organization Executive Committee Member Dr. Saeb Erekat said Saturday. Yarmouk, the largest Palestinian refugee camp in Syria, was formed in 1957 to accommodate people fleeing the Arab-Israeli conflict. ``The levels of humanity that we have seen have now descended into further levels of inhumanity,'' said Chris Gunness, spokesman for the UNRWA. Yarmouk, he added, ``was always a place where human rights meant very little. We are seeing it descend further.''. CNN's Samira Said contributed to this report.
( CNN ) ISIS fighters seized several districts in the Iraqi city of Ramadi in an hours-long assault Friday that included suicide and car bombs, an Iraqi provincial official said. At least 10 Iraqi security forces were killed in the attacks, according to Faleh al-Essawi, the deputy head of Iraq's Anbar provincial council. And the head of the Iraqi military operation in Anbar province, Gen. Qassim al-Muhammadi, was wounded. The northern Ramadi districts of Albu Faraj, Albu Essa and Albu Risha were in the hands of ISIS by the time the day was done. Located about 70 miles ( 110 kilometers ) west of Baghdad, Ramadi has seen intense and persistent fighting for months. ISIS took over parts of that western Anbar city in the first half of 2014, and it's been part of a tug of war ever since. Iraqi security forces discovered tunnels in February that they say could have led opposition fighters to a central government compound in the city. But they didn't find all of them : A few weeks later, ISIS detonated hundreds of homemade bombs from a tunnel underneath an army headquarters there, according to Sabah Al-Karhout, the head of the Anbar provincial council. More than 40 Iraqi soldiers died in that explosion. Iraqi and allied forces have made inroads in recent weeks, beating back the group that calls itself the Islamic State, which took over vast swaths of Iraq and neighboring Syria last year. Their most high-profile victory, for instance, was the recapture of Tikrit. And U.S.-led airstrikes have already made a difference, according to officials in Washington and beyond. Still, ISIS remains a formidable force and, as the Ramadi assault shows, one that's still capable and willing to go on offense to take territory. That may be best illustrated by the case of Mosul, Iraq's second largest city and the site of one of its biggest embarrassments when Iraqi soldiers and police dropped their weapons and fled their posts as ISIS forces advanced last June. A U.S. official said in February that up to 25,000 Iraqis troops were expected to return to the key northern Iraqi city in April or May. But, on Thursday, a senior official in U.S. President Barack Obama's administration appeared to back away from that timeline -- saying an Iraqi-led assault on Mosul ``might be some time from now ( or ) might be soon.''. Calling for ``patience,'' an administration official said that winning Mosul is a complex endeavor. The same could be said for the entire effort to defeat ISIS. It will ``take a lot of capacity,'' the official said, ``and some time to build.''. CNN's Kim Acosta contributed to this report.
Tikrit, Iraq ( CNN ) ISIS is gone, but the fear remains. As Iraqi forces, aided by Shiite militiamen, took control Wednesday of the northern city of Tikrit, they found vehicles laden with explosives and buildings that might be booby-trapped. CNN senior international correspondent Arwa Damon, who was in Tikrit on Tuesday, saw a large mechanical digger packed with explosives that Iraqi forces had to disarm. The troops, she said, were cautious when they entered buildings in case they were wired to explode. Plumes of smoke rose from burning buildings in the background. Near former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein's presidential palaces compound -- Tikrit is Hussein's birthplace -- the CNN team also saw a destroyed truck with a large machine gun mounted on the back. Iraqi forces said they had fired an RPG at the truck, killing three ISIS fighters. ISIS was ejected from the palaces compound in fierce fighting, they said, adding that there may still be booby traps. Federal police said they dismantled hundreds of IEDs ( improvised explosive devices ) Wednesday. CNN heard at least 16 explosions, some very loud, which police said were controlled. The potential booby traps were political as well as physical. Officials are concerned about the behavior of the conquerors, particularly the Iranian-backed Shiite militiamen who helped Iraqi troops. Officials fear the militiamen might take ``scorched earth'' reprisals for the reported massacre of Shiite air force cadets by ISIS fighters in Tikrit last year. Much of the population of Tikrit is, like ISIS, Sunni Muslim. And officials fear that reprisals by Shiite militias against the Sunni population could stoke local anger, jeopardizing the government's ability to hold onto Tikrit and pull the country together. Sectarian resentment helped fuel the rise of ISIS in the first place. `Where are our sons ?' demand families of soldiers captured by ISIS. Still, the liberation of Tikrit from the terrorist group, which is also known as ISIL and calls itself the Islamic State, represented a significant victory for the Iraqi government, which had tried -- and failed -- to retake the city many times before. Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi arrived Wednesday to claim the victory, which took place a year after the city was first attacked by ISIS. Al-Abadi, who is also Iraq's top military commander, had announced the previous evening on Iraqiya TV that the city was under the control of Iraqi forces. Iraqi forces continued to clean out pockets of resistance Wednesday, said Interior Minister Mohammed al-Ghabban, who was also in the city. But he said the Iraqi government would be in full control shortly. ``The enemy has been defeated, and it has lost all its capabilities,'' al-Ghabban said. ``In the coming hours, the battle will end.''. Iraqi security said that the few ISIS militants left in the city are hiding inside houses hoping to escape in the dark. ISIS' nine-month dominion over Tikrit was marked by brutality. In addition to the reported massacre of the 1,500-plus air force cadets at Camp Speicher in June, ISIS is believed to have buried victims in mass graves and to have destroyed an Assyrian church that had graced Tikrit since the eighth century. The push into Tikrit came days after U.S.-led airstrikes targeted ISIS bases around the city. Al-Abadi said those tactics would now be replicated in other areas. Brett McGurk, the U.S. deputy special presidential envoy to the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL, tweeted that the coalition's airstrikes had destroyed numerous ISIS shelters. ``We will continue to support courageous Iraqi forces operating under Iraqi command as they work to reclaim their territory from #ISIL,'' McGurk tweeted. The key to victory in Tikrit this time, the Prime Minister said, was surprise. But help from the coalition of Shiite militiamen and volunteers also played a part. The militia members, estimated to number around 20,000, are backed by Iran. The offensive marked the first open participation of Iranian advisers on the front lines in Iraq. The victory in Tikrit sets the stage for Iraqi forces to take back an even bigger prize -- Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city. A U.S. official said in February that up to 25,000 Iraqi troops plan to return to Mosul in April or May in an effort to retake the city. Don Melvin wrote this report in London. Arwa Damon and Hamdi Alkhshali reported from Tikrit and Jomana Karadsheh from Baghdad.
( CNN ) This article contains language that may be offensive to some. Since the news broke last weekend that Hillary Clinton had declared her candidacy, notable among the blitz of news stories are the many that refer to her as the mononymous ``Hillary,'' as if she were a pop star in a pantsuit. The New York Post published an item titled ``Lena Dunham backs Hillary for President'' while gossip site TMZ refers to the former FLOTUS, U.S. senator, and secretary of state on a first-name basis throughout its news story on the announcement. Even The New Republic posted a piece about the run called ``There's Nothing Inevitable about Hillary.''. She's famous enough by now to go by one name, but should she ?. While Clinton is arguably more widely known than any of her to-date opponents, she's also a former U.S. senator and secretary of state. She's not Beyoncé. And yet, despite her decorated career in government, we've long called Clinton by her first name, and her first name only, in a way we don't do with men who have held similar, or even vaguely similar, positions of power. According to a University of Utah study, Clinton was called by her first name four times more than her 2008 rival, Barack Obama, and so it goes this time around. After all, Rand's also running for president. So is Marco. When those guys declared, however, they got headlines that included their last names. There's a very good reason for that. Presidential candidates are not just professionals, but professionals declaring their candidacy for a position that many consider to be the most powerful in the world. A position that not only deserves formality and respect, but within a global context seems to require it. Being president of the United States is a serious job. Are there ``Ted for President'' signs in our future ? Unlikely. Were we encouraged to ``Vote for Mitt'' ? Nope. The U.S. Army, meanwhile, is one of the most regimented organizations in the world, whose values put dignity and respect at top priority. Cadets don't call their commanding officers by their first names, even -- maybe especially -- if they're women. So why are we all referring to the possible next commander-in-chief as if we're part of her circle of close pals ?. Before you point to the fact that Clinton is not the first Clinton to cross this particular political threshold, the issue at hand is not one of practicality : The American public is smart enough to distinguish between this Clinton and that Clinton. George W. Bush wasn't the first in his family to run for office, and when he did, legitimate newspapers didn't go around noting the ``W'' ( or even ``Dubya'' ) was up for the job. He was just Bush, as he should have been, just as Clinton is just Clinton, a woman who has done a very good job distinguishing herself from her husband without the need to be referred to by her first name in order to avoid a case of mistaken identity. Of course, the mononymity doesn't seem to be unwelcome : Sections of Clinton's website invite readers to ``Like Hillary on Facebook'' and read about ``Hillary's Story,'' while the campaign's official hashtag appears to be #Hillary2016. Her campaign chairman reportedly emailed potential campaign donors yesterday with the missive that ``It's official : Hillary's running for President.''. Perhaps Clinton and her advisers believe the single name makes her more personable, and familiar. Maybe it's an effort to distance Clinton from the other gender-based stereotype slapped on her the last time around, when she was ``the bitch'' to Sarah Palin's ``ditz.''. But while we should like our president -- if not desire to have her as a personal friend -- it's far more important to trust, and respect, her -- and that still requires a level of formality. It's important for the American public to be able to imagine electing a leader not despite the fact that she's a woman, or even because she's a woman, but who, very simply, happens to be a woman. Whether she endorses the idea or not, calling Clinton by her first name serves to, at best, reinforce gender and workplace stereotypes -- that women need to be ``approachable,'' not abrasive or aloof, in order to get the job done and be liked while doing it -- and at worst, infantilize and put her in her place. There's a reason, after all, that we address current and former presidents as Mr. President when we meet them, and not ``Hey, Jimmy !''. And if there's a reason Hillary Clinton will be elected as our next president, it's not because she let us call her Hillary.
Ferguson, Missouri ( CNN ) At least three people were shot in separate incidents in Ferguson, Missouri, on late Tuesday and early Wednesday as hundreds of demonstrators gathered in support of protests in Baltimore, a city spokesman said. Two people were shot in the neck and another was shot in the leg, spokesman Jeff Small said. There is a suspect in custody in the latter case : a 20-year-old male from St. Louis County. The two victims shot in the neck were hospitalized, Small said. ``Police are having a difficult time investigating because of the rocks being thrown at them,'' he said. ``At this point police are not sure if the ( shootings are ) linked to the protest or not.''. St. Louis Alderman Antonio French posted video on his Twitter account. Multiple gunshots can be heard as people flee in panic. Demonstrators set a portable toilet on fire. One person can be seen squirting what appears to be lighter fluid on it. pic.twitter.com/FG0P2yf5Uf. The unrest carried on until about 3 a.m. and three police vehicles were damaged by rocks. The renewed tensions in Ferguson follow rioting in Baltimore after the death of Freddie Gray. The 25-year-old was arrested by police on April 12 and died one week later from a fatal spinal cord injury. Similar deaths over the last year include Michael Brown in Ferguson ; Eric Garner in New York ; and Walter Scott in North Charleston, South Carolina. CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Tina Burnside and Dave Alsup contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The world learned his name after he was killed by a South Carolina police officer. But in his life, 50-year-old Walter Scott was also the father of four children and served in the Coast Guard before being honorably discharged. ``He was outgoing -- loved everybody, ( was ) very known in the community and got along with everybody,'' his brother Anthony Scott told CNN's Don Lemon. ``All the family loves him, and his kids loved him.''. Until it all came crashing down Saturday morning, when North Charleston police Officer Michael Slager pulled Scott over, reportedly for a faulty brake light. Dash cam video released Thursday shows the two talking, then shows Scott get out of his car and run. Why did he run ? Justin Bamberg, a lawyer for Scott's family, speculated Thursday it could have been related to ``child support and a fear of maybe going back to ( jail ).''. At the time of his death, Scott owed over $ 18,000 in back payments for two children and hadn't made a payment since July 2012, according to Charleston County family court documents. Another family lawyer, Chris Stewart, acknowledged that Scott had been arrested previously for outstanding warrants for not paying child support, but Stewart said that had been Scott's lone issue with the law for the past 20 years. ``I know that it had nothing to do with anything violent,'' Bamberg said of Scott's legal history. ``He was not a dangerous person.''. According to a police report, Scott did not comply with an officer's demands and tried to grab Slager's stun gun. Slager fired eight shots, five of which struck Scott. He was pronounced dead at the scene. Regardless of why Walter Scott ran, ``running from an officer doesn't result in the death penalty,'' Stewart said. Slager has been charged with murder, a charge that might not have come about if not for a bystander's video of the shooting. Anthony Scott said he watched the video that showed his brother getting shot dead, footage that has traumatized the family. ``When I saw that video for the first time, my family was deeply hurt that someone would gun down a human being in that way,'' the brother said. ``We just couldn't believe it.''. The last time the family got together with Walter Scott was when the siblings threw a surprise wedding anniversary party for their parents. ``It was a great celebration,'' Anthony Scott said. ``My dad and brothers planned it, and ( my mother ) was totally surprised. ``Now this happens,'' Scott said, referring to his brother's shooting. ``It's so tragic.''. CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.
( CNN ) The Red Cross on Saturday called for an immediate 24-hour ceasefire in battle-torn Yemen, saying many more people recently wounded in airstrikes and ground fighting will die if not tended to soon. The call came just before the U.N. Security Council met late Saturday morning to discuss the situation in the Arabian Peninsula nation, where Shiite rebels are pitted against external Arab air forces and fighters loyal to Yemen's displaced Sunni president. A pause was needed especially in and near the southern Yemeni port city of Aden, where intense fighting has happened in the past two weeks, the International Committee of the Red Cross said. Food, water, medical items and personnel need to get into these areas, the group said. ``Otherwise, put starkly, many more people will die. For the wounded, their chances of survival depend on action within hours, not days,'' Robert Mardini, the ICRC's head of operations in the Near and Middle East, said. Another Red Cross official said people are running out of food, water and fuel. ``Medical supplies need to be here yesterday. The situation is difficult, ``said Marie-Claire Feghali, a spokeswoman for the ICRC who is in the capital, Sanaa. ``We need to save the lives that can be saved.''. Meanwhile, residents of Sanaa, witnessed the fiercest Saudi strikes since the air assault started last week. Military facilities, including two bases, within the city limits have been targeted, three senior security officials in Sanaa said. At the Security Council, Russia submitted a draft resolution calling for a halt to the airstrikes that a nine-country regional coalition, led by Saudi Arabia, has been conducting against the rebels in Yemen for more than a week. The meeting adjourned with no decision announced. One diplomat said the draft was missing what the envoy called key elements. It doesn't call for the Houthis to stop fighting, and it does not call for political talks between the belligerents, the diplomat told CNN on condition of anonymity. Yemen has been descending into chaos in the weeks since Houthi rebels -- minority Shiites who have long complained of being marginalized in the majority Sunni country -- forced Yemeni President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi from power in January. The Houthis put Hadi under house arrest when they overtook Sanaa in January. But Hadi escaped in February, fled to Aden and declared himself to still be president. Houthis and their allies, including those loyal to Hadi's predecessor, then fought Hadi's forces in the Aden area. Hadi fled Aden in late March, ultimately for Saudi Arabia, when the rebels and their military allies advanced on the city. The conflict prompted Saudi Arabia, a predominately Sunni nation and Yemen's northern neighbor, and other Arab nations to hit the rebels in Yemen with airstrikes. A Saudi source told CNN that special forces supplied weapons and communication equipment to Yemeni fighters in Aden loyal to Hadi. The Houthis were retreating from areas in the center of the city, including the presidential palace there, the source said. Saudi special forces help oppose Houthi rebels in Yemen, source says. The United Nations said Thursday that at least 519 people have been killed in Yemen in the past two weeks. An additional 1,700 have been wounded. Tens of thousands have fled to nearby Somalia and Djibouti. In Aden alone, fighting has killed 58 people and injured 200 more in the past two days, Yemeni security officials said. At least 24 of the dead were Houthis. Complicating matters in Yemen is that al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula -- not the Houthis or Hadi-loyal forces -- holds sway in the country's east. AQAP is considered one of the most ruthless branches of the terrorist organization. Also late this week, photos circulating on social media purported to show senior al Qaeda leader Khaled Batarfi -- whom Yemeni defense officials said militants busted out of jail on Thursday -- posing in a presidential residence in southern Yemen. Sunni Islamist fighters freed Batarfi with some 270 prisoners when they overran the town of al Mukallah. On Saturday, the French military evacuated 44 people, including some French nationals, from the eastern Yemeni port city of Balhaf. CNN's Don Melvin, Trey Haney, David Shortell and Richard Roth contributed to this report.
Garissa, Kenya ( CNN ) The sign painted onto the school entrance wall reads : ``Youth is a mistake, adulthood is a struggle, old age is a regret.''. The black humor of the message provides some light relief for a school that lives in constant fear of a terrorist attack because of what is taught inside its walls. The students ( aged 8 to 14 ) at the Ibnu-Siina school in northern Kenya are getting a so-called ``Western'' education, taking lessons in subjects like mathematics, science and English. But it's an education that Al-Shabaab -- the Somali-based terror group -- is trying to prevent the children from obtaining, according to the head of the school. ``These men, Al-Shabaab, want to make sure everything goes negative,'' headmaster James Ndonye told CNN. ``They want to make sure they terrify the teachers so they go to their homes -- so the kids in this area don't get what they deserve.''. Al-Shabaab militants have launched a series of deadly attacks over the last few years in the region mostly targeting Christians. Many of the math and science teachers in this area are Christian. In early April, Al-Shabaab brutally massacred 147 people at Garissa University in northern Kenya. It was the group's deadliest attack to date. The gunmen would have driven down the road past the Ibnu-Siina school -- and its single unarmed guard -- to get to the university, only a few hundred meters away. Kenyan teachers and students alike are terrified. ``The University College of Garissa was the only and first university college in northern Kenya. We were happy when we got it a few years ago,'' explained Garissa Regional Governor Nadif Jama. ``Today it has been closed. That is Al-Shabaab's mission,'' Jama said. ``That is what they want. And that is nothing but destroying the fabric of our being a civilized society.''. And it's not just in Kenya. Terrorist groups across the Sahel region are waging war on schools, teachers and students. In northeast Nigeria, the Islamist militant group Boko Haram has been waging war against the government -- and the civilian population -- for several years. Most notoriously, perhaps, was Boko Haram's kidnapping of around 270 girls from a boarding school in Chibok, Borno state, last April. But the group has also carried out numerous other attacks on schools, slaughtering young boys and girls as they sleep in their dormitories. Last year in Garissa, James Ndonye lost five of his 11 teachers amid rising fears of an Al-Shabaab attack on the school. He replaced them, but it wasn't easy. Yet despite the ever-present threat of terror, Ndonye has stayed to help the children. ``I risk my life because -- for this class, there's a target we have for last year.. and I love that class very much,'' Ndonye said. Exclusive : Tracking the killer behind Garissa massacre.
( CNN ) It was all set for a fairytale ending for record breaking jockey AP McCoy. In the end it was a different but familiar name who won the Grand National on Saturday. 25-1 outsider Many Clouds, who had shown little form going into the race, won by a length and a half, ridden by jockey Leighton Aspell. Aspell won last year's Grand National too, making him the first jockey since the 1950s to ride back-to-back winners on different horses. ``It feels wonderful, I asked big questions,'' Aspell said of Many Clouds, moments after his victory. ``Over the fences he was awesome. I was just hoping his batteries would last and they did,'' he added. No fairytale. Yet for much of the Grand National -- arguably the world's most famous and certainly the sport's most prestigious jump race -- it looked as if AP McCoy was about to write an ending befitting the career of a man who has dominated jump racing for two decades. His horse Shutthefrontdoor was in the leading group as it negotiated the likes for Becher's Brooke and The Chair, some of the toughest jumps in racing. Last week the 40-year-old Ulsterman, who has won an astonishing 4,356 races, announced he would retire if he won the Grand National for the second time in his career. Shutthefrontdoor was heavily backed by the betting public sensing a storybook conclusion to McCoy's career. UK and Irish betting firms even predicted they would lose as much as $ 73 million if McCoy won. He was well placed going into the final straight but just couldn't keep up after Many Clouds cut lose, and finished back in fifth. Third time winner. But for Trevor Hemmings, the owner of Many Clouds, it was his third victory in the Grand National. ``I always dreamed of winning my first National,'' a shocked Hemmings told Channel 4. ``Then along comes a second. That's special. And when a third comes along, it's such a wonderful, wonderful feeling.''. Hemming went on to praise Aspell's performance. ``This morning talking we talked about the achievers,'' said Hemmings. ``They are quiet, confident and experienced. He has all of them.''. McCoy's fifth placed finish means he will race again at least once more, in two weeks time at Sandown.
Washington ( CNN ) One former employee of the private Blackwater Worldwide security company was sentenced Monday to life in prison and three others to 30 years each behind bars for their roles in a 2007 mass shooting in Baghdad that left 17 people dead. A federal jury convicted the four in October after a lengthy trial that saw some 30 witnesses travel from Iraq to testify against the security contractors. Prosecutors accused the men of illegally unleashed ``powerful sniper fire, machine guns and grenade launchers on innocent men, women and children.''. Senior U.S. District Court Judge Royce Lamberth sentenced Blackwater sniper Nicholas Slatten to a term of life in prison, mandatory for his first-degree murder conviction. Blackwater workers Paul Slough, Evan Liberty and Dustin Heard were sentenced to 30 year each, plus one day. Slough was convicted of 13 counts of voluntary manslaughter, 17 counts of attempted manslaughter and a firearms offense. The jury convicted Liberty of eight counts of voluntary manslaughter, 12 counts of attempted manslaughter and a firearms offense. Heard was found guilty of six counts of voluntary manslaughter, 11 counts of attempted manslaughter and a firearms offense. According to prosecutors, the four were among seven Blackwater employees who opened fire in the Nusoor Square traffic circle in Baghdad, killing 17 people. An FBI investigation found 14 of the deaths unjustified, according to rules of engagement for private security contractors in Iraq. Slatten was accused of firing the first shots. Survivors of shooting tell FBI their stories in 2007. Blackwater said its convoy came under attack, and defense attorneys said in court that witness accounts were fabricated. But witnesses testified that the contractors opened fire without provocation. ``It was horror,'' said Hasan Jaber, an attorney who was driving to work when he was shot three times. ``People running out of their cars were being shot at.. Anything that moved in Nusoor Square was shot. Women, children, young people, they shot everyone.''. Among the dead were two boys, 9 and 11, a doctor, a used car salesman, a truck driver, a businessman, an Iraqi soldier, a gardener, a taxi driver and an aspiring doctor taking his mother to an appointment, according to prosecutors. The parents and brothers of the 9-year-old victim were present in court during the sentencing hearing and spoke. Ali Razzaq's father looked at the defendants and yelled in broken English : ``If I kill anyone in his family, what he do ?! Today, we will see who will win, the law or Blackwater,'' he said. ``Blackwater killed my son.''. Dad in 2007 : Blackwater blew up son's and wife's `skulls'. The defense presented character witnesses, family members and former colleagues who testified to the defendants' capacity to work under fire and willingness to help others. Each defendant also gave a closing statement. Slatten addressed the court last, taking the opportunity to declare his innocence. Lamberth rejected his argument. The judge said that the punishments reflected the seriousness of the crimes. He said that the U.S. government ``should be commended for finding and exposing the truth of what happened.''. Blackwater incident witness in 2007 : `It was hell'. A few gasps were heard in the courtroom, and some crying. The case was initially dismissed in 2008 after a judge found the Justice Department withheld key evidence and violated the rights of the contractors. A federal appeals court reversed the ruling, paving the way for the two-month trial that ended in convictions for the four. Another contractor, Jeremy Ridgeway, pleaded guilty in 2008 to voluntary manslaughter and attempt to commit manslaughter and testified for the government. He has not yet been sentenced. Blackwater lost its $ 1 billion contract with the State Department to protect American diplomatic personnel in 2009, after the Iraqi government refused to renew the company's operating license. The company was later renamed and sold, and now operates as ACADEMI, providing protection services and training. 2007 congressional report : Blackwater most often shoots first. Wesley Bruer reported in Washington. Michael Pearson reported and wrote in Atlanta.
Washington ( CNN ) A shooting that prompted the lockdown of the U.S. Capitol for several hours Saturday was a suicide and does not have an apparent connection to terrorism, Capitol Police Chief Kim Dine said in a news conference. An unidentified male walked through a public area on the west front of the Capitol early Saturday afternoon and shot himself, Dine told reporters. Witnesses told CNN dozens of shocked onlookers watched, including some young children. The unidentified shooter had a backpack and a rolling suitcase that authorities treated as treated suspicious packages, prompting the lockdown as they were investigated, Capitol police said. The male carried a sign with a message about ``social justice,'' authorities said. A witness, Robert Bishop, told CNN it also said something about taxing the ``1 %.''. Dine said there was ``no nexus to terrorism'' apparent so far in this incident. The building and the nearby Capitol Visitors Center were locked down, meaning tourists or any staff could not enter or leave the buildings. The Capitol area was crowded with tourists taking in the Cherry Blossom trees, which are in full bloom along the National Mall. Members of the Capitol police force, which responded to the scene, did not fire their weapons, Dine said. After the suspicious packages were examined, the lockdown was lifted about 3:50 p.m. ET and pedestrian traffic was allowed. Responding to the incident were the Metropolitan Police Department, which is investigating the death, as well as the FBI, Secret Service and Park Police. Many tourists at the scene were filming at the time and showed their photos and video to investigating law enforcement officers. CNN's Ted Barrett and Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report.
Marietta, Georgia ( CNN ) The little-known star of this week's No. 1 car chase movie, ``Furious 7'' isn't a car. It's an airplane. Film producers hired a Lockheed C-130 Hercules to fly five cars 12,000 feet high, open a cargo door at the rear of the plane and parachute them out in a spectacular free-fall stunt. Geronimo !. Happy 60th birthday to the Hercules -- the oldest continuously produced family of military planes in history. Lockheed has been making these airplanes longer than the legendary B-52 bomber and the famous U2 spy jet. Unlike those planes, the C-130 has never become a household name. The fact that ``Furious 7'' producers chose a plane that was designed in the 1950s tells you a little something about the success of the Hercules. The film makes it appear as if another plane -- a C-17 Globemaster III -- drops the cars. But in real life, it took a Hercules to pull it off. Shooting the scene posed unique logistical challenges, said stunt coordinator Jack Gill in a featurette video about the mission. ``You start throwing all those cars out together -- you've got to figure out spacing. And these things drop very fast,'' Gill said. Jeremiah Beaudin of International Air Response co-piloted the stunt. ``We have to be very precise in our headings and our altitudes,'' he says in the video. The Hercules is big. It's tough. It's versatile. It refuels helicopters in flight. It can fly a small military force and its heavy equipment around the world -- and land on short, unfinished airstrips. At Lockheed's Marietta, Georgia, factory in 1955, the governor of Georgia christened the first production C-130A by smashing a bottle of Chattahoochee River water across its nose. The plane then proceeded to take off from nearby Dobbins Air Force Base. On Tuesday, exactly 60 years later, Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal recreated the ceremony -- christening a brand new Super Hercules during a birthday party of sorts for Lockheed executives and military dignitaries. ``I'm told that the 2,500 th version of this aircraft is now on the ( assembly ) line inside this building,'' Deal said. ``It transports, it becomes a war airplane as necessary and it is recognized as the true workhorse.''. Inside the plane's cockpit, Lockheed test pilot Steve Knoblock said he's done a lot of air-drop testing while flying C-130s. ``We've dropped some crazy things out,'' Knoblock said. ``Air dropping a car out of an airplane is easy. Whatever we can fit inside the ( cargo ) hold, we can drop.''. Several factors come into play for a pilot making a drop, Knoblock said, including payload weight, wind speed and timing. ``We have to give time for the car to clear the airplane, let the parachutes deploy, and then actually open,'' he said. One tricky decision involves how high the plane drops its cargo. ``There's a trade off -- between dropping it low and being more accurate.. and dropping it high where you have a little more safety in how it will land.''. Knoblock also explained how the C-130's robust landing gear helps the plane survive difficult landing conditions. ``The pilot gets to decide how hard the touchdown's going to be,'' he said. ``Sometimes to get his performance, he needs to really let it crunch on the ground. But the airplane can handle it.''. Meanwhile, in the back of the plane, Lockheed loadmaster Lucky Madsen showed off the plane's new reversible deck, which makes it easier to switch the floor from a flat surface.. to a floor with rollers embedded in it. The rollers make it easier to move cargo around and launch it out the back of the airplane. The legacy surrounding the Hercules has been built by 60 years of successful missions, including :. In 1989, a flight crew aboard a Hercules named Teal 57 was credited with saving the crew of a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration hurricane hunter airplane. While flying through Hurricane Hugo, the NOAA plane lost an engine and suffered damage to a second engine. Teal 57 happened to be nearby and located a safe place for the NOAA plane to escape the eye of the deadly Category 5 storm. Everyone returned safely to base. In 2012, Israeli Brig. Gen. Joshua Shani revealed how he flew a Hercules on a successful hostage rescue mission to Entebbe, Uganda. Four C-130s helped rescue passengers from a hijacked Air France flight in 1976. ``At some places that were particularly dangerous, we flew at an altitude of 35 feet,'' to evade radar. ``Trust me, this is scary !'' he told idfblog.com. During the military build up to 2003's U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, a Hercules test dropped the biggest conventional weapon in the Pentagon's arsenal -- a so-called MOAB -- known in military circles as ``the mother of all bombs.'' A C-130 ejected the 21,000-pound bomb out its rear cargo door high above Florida's Eglin Air Force Base. The bomb fell to earth and detonated in a spectacular fire ball. In the past, the Air Force attached small solid-fuel rocket engines to some C-130s. The added power allowed steep takeoffs on super short runways. The Hercules wasn't designed to land on aircraft carriers. They're too short. Nonetheless, a Hercules did it -- during a test in 1963. That's how amazing this plane is. But nothing lasts forever, and the C-130 is no different. The Air Force has been developing a so-called ``super short takeoff and landing aircraft'' that might replace the Hercules after 2020. The Air Force Research Laboratory calls it Speed Agile. The proposed four-engine aircraft would be able to transport super heavy loads across oceans and to arrive and depart on short, improvised airfields. Pentagon planners apparently are hoping to create a Hercules-inspired success story that will extend into the latter half of the 21st century.
Sanaa, Yemen ( CNN ) As soon as the buses parked, the people scrambled onto the airport tarmac. They carried duffel bags, plastic bags full of clothes and small suitcases. They'd already abandoned larger bags in a mound. Only carry-on luggage was allowed on this Air India plane. The passengers were mostly Indian nationals, plus Yemenis and people from other countries who had been working in Yemen's capital, Sanaa. They sprinted or walked with deliberation to the airplanes. The stress of living in a war zone showed on the passengers' faces. Nobody wanted to be left behind. They climbed the steps to the airliner and were greeted by the Air India crew, all wearing pressed uniforms, the flight attendants fully made up. After takeoff, the flight attendants went up and down the aisle offering drinks to the 188 evacuees as if they were on a vacation flight. But some passengers were already fast asleep, exhausted by the push to get out of Yemen, site of some of the most chaotic fighting in the Mideast. This scene has been repeated in recent days as countries work to get their citizens out of Sanaa during a small window when Saudi planes are not bombing the city in an attempt to drive out the Houthis, a Shiite group that has taken over the capital. Air India is especially active because so many Indian nationals work in other nations. Over the last few days, India has evacuated some 2,500 people from Yemen, said Gen. Vijay Kumar Singh, the Indian deputy foreign minister who's overseeing the evacuation. The flights are going to Djibouti, the small African nation nearly 430 kilometers ( 267 miles ) away. Some evacuees are fleeing on boats at port cities such as Aden. People are leaving behind much more than luggage. Damodar Thakur, a professor at Sanaa University, lived in the capital 34 years and built a life there. He loved living in Yemen. ``I never felt like a foreigner,'' he said. Like the others, he was exhausted and jangled by the shelling and lack of electricity for long stretches. ``At night, my goodness !'' he said. ``Gunshots being fired every minute. Sometimes the sky full of sparkling lights. Some women crying, children terrified. Really bad.''. The Houthi rebels control Sanaa, including the airport. But the Saudis are bombing the city and thus control air access in a way, so getting people out requires coordination. The Saudi air force gave Air India a four-hour window to go to and from Sanaa and a specific travel route for a safe landing. As the plane approached the city, the crew could see the scars of the fighting. There were no cars on the roads. Dozens of buildings were destroyed. At the airport, the landing strips and airport terminal were untouched by Saudi bombs, but buildings on the outskirts of the airport and planes along the airstrip had been blown to bits. The loading of passengers was swift. They approached the planes carrying boarding passes -- another touch of normalcy in the otherwise abnormal event. They didn't pay for the flight, though they had to purchase exit visas from the Houthis. Children sat on their parents' laps to maximize the number of people on the plane. Some passengers fell asleep as soon as they took their seats before takeoff. Everyone seemed to carry the weight of war, especially nurses who had tended the wounded. From Djibouti, the evacuees will most likely disperse to their home nations. ``Now I can only pray for Yemen and those we left behind,'' Thakur said.
Garissa, Kenya ( CNN ) Freshly laundered clothes still hang Friday in the dormitory at Garissa University College. Stuffed animals remain in one room. On the wall in another hangs a poster on proper preparation for Muslim prayer. These small reminders of college life at this Kenyan school belie the horror of what happened here : the slaughter of at least 147 people, many of them students who lived in this building. On Friday afternoon, more than 36 hours after the attack, investigators and Kenya Red Cross crews were finishing up the task of removing the bodies of dead students. The corpses of four Al-Shabaab attackers -- dressed head to toe in black and still clutching their AK-47s -- remained where they fell, their bodies shattered in a torrent of bullets. Kenya terrorist attack : 6 things you need to know. Investigators marked the locations of students' bodies with numbered tags before Red Cross workers came in to send them off to morgues. They would call out to each other with the locations of the dead, reducing once promising lives, for the time being at least, to numbers. 221. 214. 216. 217. Sometimes, the cell phones of the dead would ring, taking the workers aback. Beyond the bodies, evidence of what had happened at the dormitory was everywhere. Shattered glass and shell casings littered the floor. Walls and ceilings were marred by bullet holes. In some places, the blood was as thick as mud. The problems plaguing Kenya's security efforts. According to students and authorities, militants burst onto the campus around 5 a.m. Thursday. The gunmen, from the Al-Shabaab terror group, first stormed a Christian prayer service, killing some students, taking others hostage. They rampaged across the campus, shooting non-Muslims, sparing Muslims, a witness said. One student, Hellen Titus, told CNN she hid inside a wardrobe for nearly an hour before the gunmen came for her. Come out, they told her, you won't be shot. ``They were lying,'' she said. The gunmen herded her and maybe three dozen other students into a community room where they'd usually hang out and watch television. They were told to lie down, lectured about how the Quran forbids killing women. And then the men, Titus said, were shot in the head. One of the gunmen egged on the others. ``Shoot them ! Shoot them !'' he would say, according to Titus. More lecturing : the land, the gunmen said, didn't belong to nonbelievers. We, the gunmen said, have just two missions : to kill, and be killed. And then they started shooting the women. ``Anyone who is breathing, shoot them,'' Titus said the gunman in charge said. ``We just lay there hopelessly, because we know automatically we're going to be killed,'' Titus said. It was then she saw the blood of a fellow student coursing toward her on the floor. She smeared it onto her face and body to make it appear she, too, was dead. ``In the time of shooting, they skipped me,'' she said. She survived with only a hand wound. Many of the other students were shot in the back of the head, a medic told CNN. Others had been beheaded, according to people who had viewed bodies at the morgue in Chiromo. Even longtime relief workers such as Reuben Nyaora with the International Rescue Committee said they were shocked at what they saw. ``I have seen many things,'' Nyaora told Agence France-Presse, ``but nothing like that.''. Opinion : A weakened Al-Shabaab lashes out. CNN's Michael Pearson wrote from Atlanta. CNN's David McKenzie and Lillian Leposo reported from Kenya. CNN's Dominique van Heerden and Soni Methu contributed to this report.
( CNN ) Lane Bryant has come up with a devil of an idea to market its lingerie while poking fun at a competitor. The plus-size clothing retailer has launched an ad campaign for its Cacique line titled #ImNoAngel, seeking to ``redefine sexy.''. In a commercial posted on You Tube, a group of plus-size models show off the bras and panties while saying things like ``How boring would it be if we were all the same ?'' and ``It's all about how you feel.''. The campaign is a not-so-subtle dig at Victoria's Secret and its very popular Angels line, which caters to smaller women. The lingerie giant was criticized last year for a campaign featuring the words ``Perfect Body'' over images of slender supermodels, and Business Insider reports that it is under increasing pressure from consumers to offer larger sizes. Lane Bryant's campaign is getting positive buzz in social media land, with the company being hailed for celebrating beauty of all shapes and sizes. ``Our' #ImNoAngel' campaign is designed to empower ALL women to love every part of herself,'' Chief Executive Officer Linda Heasley said in a statement. ``Lane Bryant firmly believes that she is sexy and we want to encourage her to confidently show it, in her own way.''. The ads will be featured in the company's stores, on television, in print and on billboards, as well as featured on the brand's social media accounts.
( CNN ) A grand jury in Dallas County, Texas, has decided not to indict two officers in the fatal shooting of Jason Harrison, a schizophrenic man whose mother had called police for help getting him to the hospital. ``This particular case was reported out as a `no bill,' from the grand jury,'' said Cristal Retana, a spokeswoman for the Dallas County District Attorney's Office. The grand jury's decision not to indict means Officers John Rogers and Andrew Hutchins won't face criminal prosecution in the case. But the officers are still facing a wrongful death lawsuit from Harrison's family. The incident occurred in June, and Harrison's family filed a lawsuit in November. The release of video from one of the officer's body cameras put the shooting back in the headlines last month. In it, Harrison's mother answers the door for police and nonchalantly walks outside. ``Oh, he's just off the chain,'' she says. ``You can hear him, talking about chopping up people.''. It was a fairly routine occurrence for her to call the police for assistance with her son. An officer asks who she's talking about, and she replies, ``My son, bipolar, schizo,'' as Jason Harrison appears in the doorway behind her. He is twiddling a screwdriver between his fingers. One of the two officers called to the scene tells Harrison to drop the tool, a command the officers repeat at least four times as Harrison's mom screams, ``Jay ! Jay ! Jay !''. Within five seconds of that first command, the 39-year-old schizophrenic man is shot five times -- including twice in the back as he crashes headlong into the home's garage door, just a few feet from his mother. Video from one officer's body camera fades to black as Harrison's mother wails, ``Oh, they killed my son ! Oh, they killed my son !'' The officers continue to tell Harrison to drop the weapon. The Harrison family's lawsuit against Rogers and Hutchins says they should have used nonlethal means of defusing the situation instead of choosing to engage ``in unlawful vicious attacks'' when they and the department were aware of Harrison's condition. The suit also claims the officers violated Harrison's civil rights. The officers, however, said in affidavits that they were forced to shoot an armed man who they deemed dangerous after he failed to comply with repeated orders to drop a screwdriver. CNN's Matthew Stucker and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
( CNN ) They may not be ``Star Trek'' - type extraterrestrials, but we may be close to finding evidence of alien life, a NASA scientist says. ``I think we're going to have strong indications of life beyond Earth within a decade, and I think we're going to have definitive evidence within 20 to 30 years,'' NASA chief scientist Ellen Stofan said Tuesday during a panel discussion on water in the universe. ``We know where to look. We know how to look,'' she said. ``In most cases, we have the technology, and we're on a path to implementing it. And so I think we're definitely on the road.''. NASA released a graphic noting that scientists have found evidence or indications of water on a number of celestial bodies, including the dwarf planet Ceres and Jupiter's moon Europa. The Hubble Space Telescope has been key to the discoveries, NASA said in a news release. ``Scientists using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope recently provided powerful evidence that ( Jupiter's moon ) Ganymede has a saltwater, sub-surface ocean, likely sandwiched between two layers of ice,'' the agency noted. There are some caveats involved, of course. NASA isn't talking about intelligent alien civilizations from the Alpha Quadrant ; it's referring to microorganisms. ``We are not talking about little green men,'' Stofan said at the panel. ``We are talking about little microbes.''. Still, former astronaut John Grunsfeld said it's an exciting time -- and he thinks it's just a matter of time before we find life outside our solar system as well. ``I think we're one generation away in our solar system, whether it's on an icy moon or on Mars, and one generation on a planet around a nearby star,'' he said. And, he added, who knows what that life will look like ?. ``Once we get out beyond Mars, the likelihood that it's similar to Earth because we share that material gets very, very low,'' he said. ``And I think that's where it starts getting exceptionally exciting.''
( CNN ) A TV series based on the 1999 sci-fi film ``Galaxy Quest'' is in the works at Paramount Television. The DreamWorks film centered on the cast of a canceled space TV show who are accidentally sent to a spaceship and must save an alien nation. TV Land's `Younger' renewed for second season. The film's scribe Robert Gordon is expected to write the TV version and executive produce with the film's director Dean Parisot, producer Mark Johnson and Johnson's producing partner Melissa Bernstein. `The Voice' coaches CeeLo Green, Gwen Stefani and Usher to return. The film starred Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell, Daryl Mitchell and Enrico Colantoni. PBS to conduct ``Internal Review'' over Ben Affleck's request to hide slave-owner ancestry. ``Galaxy Quest'' is the latest movie to be adapted for the small screen. This pilot season, ABC has ``Uncle Buck,'' CBS has ``Rush Hour'' and Fox has ``Minority Report.'' Paramount Television specifically has turned several of the studio's hit films into TV series. ``School of Rock'' will debut on Nickelodeon later this year, and USA recently ordered a pilot for ``Shooter,'' based on the Mark Wahlberg film. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
Tokyo ( CNN ) A bizarre and alarming discovery is raising concerns in Japan about the potential for terrorism involving drones. A drone carrying traces of a radioactive material was found on the rooftop of Japan's equivalent to the White House on Wednesday, police and government officials said. The discovery came on the same day a Japanese court approved a government plan to restart two reactors at the Sendai nuclear power plant in Kagoshima prefecture, more than four years after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's push to restart the reactors is unpopular among many Japanese, who view nuclear energy as too dangerous. A staff member spotted the drone Wednesday morning on the roof of Abe's residence, Tokyo Metropolitan Police said. Dozens of police investigators were dispatched to the roof to investigate the origin of the drone, which had four propeller and was 50 centimeters ( 20 inches ) wide. Police say the drone was equipped with a small camera, smoke flares and a plastic bottle containing small traces of a radioactive material believed to be cesium, a common byproduct of nuclear reactors. Cesium was also discovered in areas around the failed Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant after its 2011 meltdown. Investigators suspect the cesium was placed in the bottle. The amount inside is not immediately harmful to humans. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said the discovery is raising concerns about terrorism. ``There might be terrorism attempts in the future at the Olympics and G7 Summit using drones,'' Suga said. ``So we need to examine and review continuously the way small unmanned vehicles like drones should be operated and how to cope with the threat of terrorism from drones. The government will do all that we can to prevent terrorism.''. Japanese law restricts drone flights around airports to prevent problems with aircraft, but there are no flight restrictions for most of Tokyo, including the Prime Minister's residence and local and federal government buildings. Abe was not in his office at the time. He is in Indonesia, attending the Asian-African Conference. CNN's Elizabeth Joseph, Joshua Berlinger and Josh Levs contributed to this report.
New York ( CNN ) New York's iconic Statue of Liberty and Liberty Island will reopen to the public Saturday -- one day after a bomb threat that led to its evacuation was declared unfounded, officials said. The NYPD bomb squad on Friday examined a locker thought to contain a suspicious package and found it was empty, a law enforcement official said. Police declared the scene clear at 3:15 p.m.. Other lockers checked as a precautionary measure, the law enforcement source said. Images posted on social media showed crowds of visitors walking on ramps to awaiting ferries. All civilians were evacuated and only emergency personnel remained on Liberty Island, according to police. The fire department had EMS units there as a precaution. Mike Burke, the head of Statue Cruises, which operates the ferry to the island, said : ``Our first priority is the safety and well being of all of our visitors.''. Burke said about 2,700 people were safely transported from the island and offered full refunds. Service to Liberty Island is to resume at 8:30 a.m. Saturday. Shortly after 11 a.m., the National Park Service was informed that a 911 caller made a threat to blow up the Statue of Liberty -- which led to the evacuation, according to park service spokeswoman Mindi Rambo. A sweep by U.S. Park Police canine units ``alerted on an area of interest near the lockers at the base'' of the Statue of Liberty, Rambo said. Park police had notified the NYPD, which dispatched its bomb squad, officials said. It is not uncommon to get false positives from the bomb-sniffing dogs. ``Following their investigation, it was determined that there was not an explosive device,'' Rambo said. Approximately 3.5 million people visit the Statue of Liberty every year. Visitors must pass through security screening similar to airport security procedures, according to the National Park Service. Previously, the statue closed in November 2012 because of significant damage sustained from Superstorm Sandy. It reopened on July 4, 2013, with a ribbon cutting ceremony and long lines of tourists. The last time the island shut down to the public was in October 2013, when it closed for 12 days because of the a government shutdown. The statue was dedicated by President Grover Cleveland on October 28, 1886. It was a gift to the United States from the people of France to commemorate 100 years of Franco-American friendship as well as the centennial of America's independence.
( CNN ) Last month's so-so jobs numbers confirm the challenges our economy still faces. Despite recent gains, only 126,000 jobs were added, the lowest since December 2013. Wages remain sluggish. And unemployment may still be at 5.5 %, but there is wide concern among labor experts and economists that too much job growth is in part-time low-income work. Low-wage workers have been the hardest hit since the onset of the financial crisis, and low-wage jobs remain a fixture of the new economy. Nearly 60 % of the people in America's workforce are paid hourly and work part-time. Most part-time employees are doing low-wage work. Tackling this growing trend is complex. But there is a simple step we can take to improve the conditions of low-wage workers today. Congress should help low-wage workers gain access to predictable work schedules. Here is how this issue works :. America's major fast-food chains, retailers and department stores use ``just-in-time'' scheduling to maximize profit, which in turn creates unstable and stressful work environments for low-wage workers. This type of scheduling has increased dramatically because of sophisticated software that ties staffing to expected customer traffic. Algorithms, built on sales and economic data, provide real-time information for managers to make personnel adjustments. Not surprisingly, such haphazard scheduling wreaks havoc with low-wage workers. Hourly low-income workers endure significantly greater fluctuations in their hours and less predictability in how much they earn than full-time employees. Many don't even know their weekly schedules until the last moment. A University of Chicago study found that 41 % of early career hourly workers and 47 % who work part-time received a week or less of notice of their work schedules. Imagine dealing with this as you are trying to earn a basic living, find reliable child care, get new vocational skills, or attend to medical needs. Women and workers of color most acutely struggle with this practice. Women comprise over two-thirds of the nearly 20 million workers in low-wage jobs like home health care, fast food work, and cash services. Similarly, a large proportion of minorities work low-wage jobs. Nearly 50 % of African-Americans and Latinos receive their hours with a week or less notice. By comparison, almost 40 % of whites receive weekly notice. Minorities also have much less of an ability to control their hours. Only 10 % of Latinos and 12 % of black workers reported being able to set their hours within certain limits or freely. Within this same context, 18 % of whites said they could. Child care is the primary casualty of just-in-time scheduling. Because of erratic shifts, child care centers often can't accommodate a working mother's schedule. Many must attend to informal arrangements, which by nature are unstable and unreliable. Traditional economic safeguards have offered little help to these workers. Unions, for example, have provided little protection against just-in-time scheduling because of their nascent role in the service economy. Real solutions exist. States and cities are enacting laws to address scheduling abuses. New York, Minnesota and Michigan previously introduced promising legislation. And in December, San Francisco became the first jurisdiction to pass a ``retail worker bill of rights.'' This ordinance limits how chain stores can alter their employees' schedules. Still, there is no substitute for federal action. Too many people work in states with little protection. Washington ignores the problem because congressional Republicans have shown little interest in the plight of low-wage workers. Last summer, The Schedules that Work Act was introduced in Congress. According to the National Women's Law Center, the bill would provide workers the right to request and receive predictable work schedules, receive compensation for sudden scheduling changes, and not fear retaliation if they request scheduling accommodations from their boss. Although the bill expired last session it will likely be reintroduced. And yet the bill will most likely not pass. Congressional Republicans have demonstrated they are more interested in unraveling worker protections under the guise of supporting economic growth. Conservatives should embrace this work-schedule legislation. The bill protects families and allows them to attend to their many obligations, not just work. Protecting shift workers is likewise good for business. Studies show that workers who exercise greater control over their hours are happier and more efficient. Conversely, just-in-time scheduling increases worker turnover and hurts worker satisfaction. While Washington stalls, it's everyday Americans who are hurt. It's the single mom in Chattanooga working as a Walmart cashier who's juggling work and childcare for her kids. It's the Arby's line cook in Fort Worth who needs reliable shifts to make her dialysis treatments. It's the stock man at an Amazon fulfillment center in Lehigh Valley who can't get his son to pre-algebra tutoring because of his erratic shifts. Our leaders have the unique responsibility to protect America and attend to the critical economic challenges of our time. Even with the weaker-than-expected jobs report we know our overall economy is improving, yet income-inequality is deepening. Congress must endorse a recovery that's inclusive, livable, and one that enables every family to balance competing obligations. They can start by passing legislation that better protects shift workers from arbitrary and unpredictable scheduling practices.
Dongguan, China ( CNN ) For a decade, the New South China Mall -- the biggest shopping mall in the world -- has been an embarrassment for its owners and China. Opened to the public in 2005 in Dongguan in the south of the country, the goal was to attract 100,000 visitors a day with an array of entertainment, shops and eateries. Outside the mall, a giant Egyptian sphinx and a replica of the Arc de Triomphe were erected alongside fountains and canals complete with Venetian gondolas. It even boasted an indoor roller coaster. But despite the grand plans neither stores nor shoppers came. Soon, it was classified by industry analysts as a ``dead mall'' and it became an unflattering symbol of China's runaway speculation on real estate projects. The mall spans five million square feet of shopping area, making it the largest in the world in terms of leasable space -- more than twice the size of Mall of America, the biggest shopping center in the United States. When I visited two years ago, the mall was deserted. Most units were empty. Paint was coming off the walls and store signs and advertisements had faded. The air had a dry smell of dust and garbage was piled everywhere. The occupancy rate was less than 10 %. It was a walk through a ghost mall. However, a visit in late March revealed a different picture. The mall was buzzing with activity. Large parts of the previously abandoned buildings are now full of shops, restaurants and entertainment venues. Visitors could be seen browsing for luxury sunglasses and designer jeans, dining at the Korean, Italian or Chinese restaurants or enjoying the new entertainment facilities. Screams and laughter can be heard from merry-go-rounds. ``It's been a big change. It's a clear modernization,'' said David Carr, an English teacher from the United States who is living in Dongguan with his wife Danae, also a teacher. ``We come here at least once a month now.''. Despite the signs of life, much of the mall is still vacant. But most of the unoccupied units, along with halls and walkways are under renovation. Even on a Saturday, it's full of construction workers and the constant sound of jack-hammering and sawing. Ms Shu, head of New South China Mall's marketing unit, told CNN that there are plans for a re-launch ceremony this spring, when all construction work will be completed and most shop and restaurant areas are leased to tenants. ``All construction that is currently going on at the mall is preparation for the opening in May,'' she said, declining to give her full name. ``We expect that from May, we will have almost full occupancy rate and no empty shops.''. She said she couldn't offer any more details as she was not authorized to speak with media. Ms Ye, head of investments, confirmed that ``business is really great,'' but would not comment further. Dutch retail chain Spar, which has expanded its supermarket to two floors, explained on its website that it had re-launched last year during the mall's ``upgrading and retrofitting program.''. There are also plenty of recruitment ads posted at the entrance of the mall. When I spoke to her, Huang Haiyan, a young Chinese woman, was just two days away from opening a little café called ``Miss & H'' in one of the passage ways being renovated. Sitting on the sidewalk outside the café, she and her partners were busy washing up cups, classes and plates ahead of the big day. ``I'm so excited !'' she said, showing the kind of enthusiasm that had been non-existent when I last visited the mall two years ago. ``You must come, my coffee is the best in China !''. The area around the previously run-down Arc de Triomphe is now a tranquil roofed boulevard with small coffee shops where youngsters play cards and mothers sip lattes. In January, a globe shaped IMAX-style cinema was launched at the outdoor square. One of the more eye-catching new sources of entertainment is a role-playing amusement center for children called Myrules World. Today, it no longer feels like a walk through a ghost mall. It's hard to believe how rapid the change has been. Economist Brian Jackson says the shift in focus towards restaurants and businesses that target China's middle, rather than, upper class, is a smart move on behalf of the developers. ``Many large malls ( and residential construction ) in China.. are all hoping to target one demographic -- the upper class,'' he said. ``What is needed to succeed is retail space that caters to ( the much larger ) bulk of middle-class Chinese.''. And, he says, other developments that were once labeled ``ghost cities'' have gone on to thrive. ``One to three years is a blink of an eye in terms of city developments, so many of these cities still have time to fill and become functional, ``Jackson said. Despite its retrofitting program, the problems that have dogged the mall since its start will not disappear instantly. Most of Dongguan's almost 10 million inhabitants are migrant workers struggling to make ends meet. The town is also facing difficulties as manufacturing moves elsewhere in China or to Southeast Asia where wages are lower. China is also haunted by serious problems in its real-estate market, with over investment and large vacancy rates. In March, prices of new homes fell for the twelfth consecutive month. What's more, the mall's latest re-launch is not its first. In 2007, the mall changed name from ``South China Mall'' to ``New South China Mall, Living City'' and a revitalization plan was drawn up by current owners the Founders Group, a conglomerate set up by Peking University, and its subsidiary PKU Founder. But the revamp failed and the mall remained empty. Now, the owners are hoping for third time lucky. PICTURES : Inside a Chinese ghost city.
New York ( CNN ) A New York Police Department detective apologized Friday for an angry exchange with an Uber driver that was caught on video and landed him on modified assignment. ``I apologize. I sincerely apologize,'' Patrick Cherry told WNBC's Jonathan Dienst. Cherry, an NYPD detective assigned to the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force with top-secret security clearance, faces suspension, reassignment or loss of his clearance after the video of the altercation went viral. ``I was just angry, at that moment, for that exchange.'' Cherry said. ``If the conversation initially went differently, we probably would have shook hands at the end of that encounter.''. The altercation began Monday when the Uber driver gestured to a detective in an unmarked car to use his blinker after he was allegedly attempting to park without using it, according to Sanjay Seth, a passenger in the car who uploaded the video to YouTube. The video picks up seconds after the detective began yelling at the driver and mocking his accent, and also shows the unmarked car with lights flashing pulled over behind the Uber car. In the video, the detective tells the driver he has committed ``three traffic and law violations'' and then becomes irate and uses expletives toward the comparably calm driver. A visibly upset Police Commissioner William Bratton on Wednesday said the detective was placed on modified assignment pending an investigation. ``No good cop can watch that without a wince,'' he told reporters. ``As all good cops know.. the officer made their jobs a little bit harder. That kind of anger like that is unacceptable in any encounter ; discourtesy like that and language like that is unacceptable. That officer's behavior reflected poorly on everyone who wears our uniform.''. Cherry also apologized to the police commissioner, saying ``he's doing a lot of good work to strengthen community relations in the city and I set that back. I would work, personally work to fix that.''. ``You can't judge three minutes of a tape involving me and me alone as indication that that's the kind of practice of the New York City Police Department,'' he added. Bratton, who said the detective was on duty at the time, issued an apology to the driver and passengers. Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters at an unrelated news conference that he had not seen the video. ``There's just no place for any public servant to use discriminatory or negative language,'' he said. ``Obviously, our police play a particularly sensitive role and need to show respect for all people.''. In a statement, Michael Palladino, president of the Detectives' Endowment Association, called the officer ``a person of good character and an excellent detective'' who ``should not be judged by one isolated incident.''. ``I am not trying to minimize the significance of what occurred,'' Palladino said. ``I am simply pointing out that cops are just like everyone else. They have families, friends and other things going on in their lives, too, that may affect their behavior at times. There is no disputing that we are held to a higher standard, that is why this incident is so newsworthy.''. In the video, after the detective steps back to his car, the Uber driver, who moved to America less than two years ago, turns to the passenger and thanks him for recording the video. ``That's crazy. That's really inappropriate,'' the passenger tells the driver. ``Listen, it's not your fault. He shouldn't be slamming your car door, throwing things around. He doesn't have a right to open your door.''. When the detective comes back, he is irate and doesn't allow the driver to speak. ``I don't care what you have to say, people are allowed to park their cars on the side of the street without your interference,'' the detective tells the driver. ``I don't know where you're coming from, where you think it's appropriate in doing that. That's the way it works.''. ``I've got news for you,'' the detective says, ``the only reason you're not in handcuffs and going to jail and getting summons in the precinct is because I have things to do. That's the only reason that's not happening. Because this isn't important enough for me. You're not important enough. Don't ever do that again.''. The NYPD said the Internal Affairs Bureau is investigating the incident. ``The behavior in the video is wrong and unacceptable and we appreciate the NYPD investigating the incident. We are in touch with our driver-partner who was subjected to this terrible experience and will continue to provide any support he needs,'' Uber said Tuesday. Seth met Wednesday with an investigator from the Civilian Complaint Review Board, according to board spokeswoman Linda Sachs. The investigator is attempting to interview the driver as well as the police officer. The findings will be presented to the board, which will make an official determination on whether misconduct was committed, Sachs said. The board will either refer the decision to the NYPD with a disciplinary recommendation, or decide to bring up the officer on administrative charges, with the decision presented to the police commissioner. CNN's Carolyn Sung contributed to this report.
( CNN ) At first blush, Brian Rogers and Caitlin McGuire seem like any other small business owners -- polite, hardworking and passionate about what they do. But there's the potential for things to get a little awkward when the conversation turns from ``hi ``s to highs. ``There's always a moment of hesitation of `when are they going to ask us what we do ?' and `how are they going to receive that when we tell them ?''' McGuire, 25, said. She and Rogers, 34, own the Breckenridge Cannabis Club, a recreational marijuana dispensary in the historic and scenic ski town of Breckenridge, Colorado. The couple started their business as a medical cannabis dispensary in 2010, but when Colorado became the first state in the nation to allow the sale of recreational marijuana, they saw a once-in-a-lifetime business opportunity. Previously, they were only permitted to sell medical marijuana to the approximate 4,500 permanent residents of Breckenridge ; when the new legislation took effect on January 1, 2014, they could then sell to any of the 30,000-plus tourists ( 21 years or older ) who visited the town during peak season. By the end of the first day of ``recreational'' sales, they knew their lives had changed forever. The two said they brought in more than $ 47,000 in sales, roughly 30 times their normal daily sales of medical marijuana. The long lines and enthusiastic patrons also raised the ire of some of the residents who felt the shop detracted from the town's ``family-friendly'' atmosphere. Now, the pair's journey to build a legal marijuana empire is documented in the new CNN Original Series ``High Profits,'' which premieres Sunday, April 19, at 10 p.m. ET/PT. ``Somebody is going to become a mogul,'' Rogers said. In 2014, legal marijuana was a $ 700 million industry in Colorado and was billed as the fastest growing industry in the United States. And, according to a a 2014 Gallup Poll, 51 % of Americans favored legalizing marijuana, though that was down from the previous year's approval of 58 %. It's a majority, but a slim majority -- and 23 states still prohibit marijuana outright. Here are the next states to legalize pot. ``We want to show people that it's not just a bunch of stoners selling pot over the counter,'' McGuire said. ``It's business-minded people -- hardworking Americans -- who are just like any other business and trying to make their dream work.''. She and Rogers are simultaneously pragmatic and optimistic about the public's opinion. It's 2015 : Is weed legal in your state ?. ``I think they often think we woke up and it was handed to us. Our job was created ; we created our jobs through hard work and investment and risk,'' Rogers said. As pioneers in a newly legalized business, the risks Rogers and McGuire face go above and beyond those of your average small business. While the sale and private consumption of cannabis is legal in Colorado, the federal government still considers it a Schedule I controlled substance like heroin or LSD, a dangerous drug with ``no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse.''. That classification makes it difficult for banks -- which are federally regulated -- to do business with marijuana retailers, even legal ones. Few even try. This is pot's $ 3 billion banking problem. And forget about paying for your pot with plastic. Like most Colorado cannabis stores, the Breckenridge Cannabis Club is a cash only business. Without access to banking, McGuire and Rogers are forced to pay their staff, their suppliers and even their taxes in cash. The two recognize that ``budtender'' might not be a career path any family expects their child to embark on, but for the most part, there has been surprising support : McGuire even got permission to use the remainder of her college fund to start Breckenridge Cannabis Club more than five years ago. ``For both of us, it was pretty easy to see this as a great opportunity to do something different,'' McGuire said. ``We were just working in the service industry so it's not like either of us had any full-fledged careers that we were afraid to leave behind or families that we were worried about risking or providing for.''. What's worse -- pot or booze ?. Rogers' family used to tell his grandmother that he and McGuire ran a ski rental business. ``Then one day she was like, `You don't rent skis, do you ?''' he laughs. McGuire had a similar experience with her grandma, until she came to the store for the first time and saw its legitimacy. ``She thought we were just your stereotypical drug dealers,'' she said. The couple says their grandmothers' attitude shift is what they're hoping for on a larger scale : While you may not agree with them, entrepreneurs in four states and the District of Columbia are out to prove that recreational cannabis and capitalism can coexist. ``We're cannabis consumers and we support that part of it, too. But that's not what this business is about,'' McGuire said. ``It's about having the opportunity to create a life for us and have a professional career that sustains us.''. Will they succeed ? Tune in to ``High Profits,'' Sunday nights at 10 p.m. ET/PT.
Easley, South Carolina ( CNN ) The cracker or the bite of ice cream -- Brynn Duncan still isn't sure which one sent her into anaphylactic shock that day. Her food allergies change so frequently, keeping track is almost pointless. It was just another day with another massive allergic reaction. She can always tell when one is coming on. ``I just get this overwhelming sense of -- they call it impending doom.'' Her labradoodle, Moose, starts alerting, licking her hands frantically. ``I'll feel like I'm being stabbed in the stomach, and then it gets hard to breathe and my throat and tongue start swelling. And we have to treat it really fast.''. On that particular day in March, multiple EpiPens didn't slow the reaction. The paramedics who arrived to take Brynn to Greenville Memorial Hospital, or ``Hotel Greenville'' as she likes to call it, knew her well. When she asked for her security blanket, they knew to hand her her smartphone. ``New day, new crisis,'' Brynn quips as she tells the story, as if it's about her first day of college or a shopping trip gone wrong. It might as well be. When you're allergic to life, a near-death experience is no big deal. Less than a week after her trip to the hospital, Brynn, 21, is back at home in Easley, South Carolina. She lies on her back, her head near the foot of her bed, chattering away as her mom changes the access to her chest port. Melissa Duncan, a paralegal by day, dons a mask and surgical gloves before disinfecting the area around the tube that's connected to Brynn's jugular vein. The disinfectant burns, and Brynn's blood pressure hits 150/102. Her heart rate rockets to 128. ``The meds we have to give her to keep her alive, she reacts to,'' Melissa says, shaking her head. ``Never in a million years did I think I would be doing this.''. Brynn was seemingly a normal kid -- until she wasn't. Yes, she was a fussy baby. Yes, she got sick often as a child, Melissa muses out loud -- but what kid doesn't ? Brynn was also incredibly energetic, always the center of attention. Her father, Barry, jokingly rues the day she learned to talk. She started taekwondo at the age of 9 and had her black belt by the time she was 11. That was the same year doctors diagnosed Brynn with IBS, or irritable bowel syndrome. ``She's always been --'' Melissa Duncan pauses. ``High maintenance !'' Brynn fills in with a laugh. It wasn't until shortly before her 16th birthday in 2010 that Brynn had her first serious allergic reaction. The next two years became a blur of sick days and doctors' appointments. Brynn saw specialist after specialist. The gastrointestinologist diagnosed her with gastroparesis, or partial paralysis of the stomach muscles. A cardiologist said she had POTS, or Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome -- meaning that when she stood up for longer than a few minutes, her blood pressure dropped, leaving her light-headed and nauseated. A Wake Forest doctor diagnosed her with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, a connective tissue disorder that causes fragile skin and overly flexible joints. After doing hours of research, Melissa, Barry and Brynn came up with their own diagnosis : mast cell disease. They found a specialist online, Dr. Lawrence Afrin, who at the time was working in Charleston. They waited nearly nine months to see him, but hearing him confirm their suspicions was life-changing. Scientists don't know yet what causes mast cell disease. Researchers have found mutations in mast cells that may cause the abnormal behavior, but the mutations vary from one patient to the next. Because of this, scientists suspect the mutations are acquired early in life. But genetics may make some children more susceptible to developing the mutations. Mast cells are the regulators of your immune system. They're the ones that release histamine when a bug bites, or when you come into contact with an allergen. They basically sound the alarm that lets the rest of your immune system know something is wrong. Until recently, the only mast cell disease doctors had identified was mastocytosis, which is characterized by ``abnormal proliferation and activation'' of the body's mast cells -- meaning there are way too many and they act in strange ways. But in the last few years doctors such as Afrin have started to recognize that there are many different layers to mast cell disease. For instance, Brynn has mast cell activation syndrome, meaning her mast cells act strangely, but they're not growing in number. ``It's like I'm living in a 24/7 allergic reaction,'' Brynn explains simply. Fruit, vegetables, milk, soy, nuts, smoke, perfume, the sun -- you name it, Brynn is allergic to it. But it's not really about the specifics ; the allergens change depending on how ``angry'' her mast cells are that day, she says. On good days, she can eat small amounts of plain meat or mashed potatoes. On bad days, even using her feeding tube causes her extreme pain. Not everyone with mast cell activation syndrome has it as bad as Brynn does. ``Oh God, no,'' Afrin says when asked. ``No, no, no, no.''. But mast cells are located in your connective tissue, including your skin and the lining of your stomach and intestine. They can affect every system in the body, Afrin says, so the disease is capable of causing all the symptoms Brynn experiences. You have to ask yourself, he says : ``Is this poor patient so uniquely unlucky to have acquired so many different, independent problems ? Or is it more likely that there is just one thing going on ?''. Of course, having a diagnosis didn't make living with mast cell disease any easier. In 2012, Brynn was admitted to the hospital 30 times. She started having seizures and episodes of dystonia -- painful, violent muscle contractions that are ``scary to see and scary to experience.'' On multiple occasions, doctors have had to put casts on her legs to prevent her joints from bending in the wrong direction.
Sao Paulo, Brazil ( CNN ) Hundreds of thousands of Brazilians are taking to the streets in protests across the country, lashing out against President Dilma Rousseff as she struggles with an economic downturn and a massive bribery scandal. The demonstrators have called for the President to be impeached. On the other side Rousseff's base is holding rallies in her support. There are a number of issues at play. One of the biggest : an investigation into a multimillion-dollar kickback scheme at the state-run oil company Petrobras. Petrobras was long considered the corporate jewel in Brazil's crown, one of the biggest companies in the world by market capitalization. But last year, investigators launched a sweeping investigation. According to suspects-turned-witnesses, construction companies paid bribes to executives at Petrobras as well as politicians to secure lucrative contracts. Most of the politicians accused in the investigation belong to the President's Workers Party and its allies. During many of the years that the alleged corruption took place, Rousseff was the chairwoman of Petrobras. There hasn't been any evidence she was involved with the scheme, and her supporters say the position is merely a figurehead. Rousseff has defended Brazilians' right to protest and acknowledged the need to clean up corruption at Petrobras -- but denied any prior knowledge of it. But Brazilians are still outraged. Rousseff won re-election with just over 50 % of valid votes in October, but her approval rating plummeted to 13 % after the protests last month. Compounding the frustration is the economy, which is expected to contract this year. Inflation is stubbornly high, and the currency has lost more than 20 % of its value against the dollar this year alone. Both sides are. The country was already sharply divided during presidential elections in October. Roughly half of the voting population didn't vote for Rousseff, and many of those same people joined protests immediately after elections. Rousseff's supporters like to characterize the protesters as Brazilian elite and right-wingers, and some small groups do carry signs calling for a military intervention to oust the President. But with the Petrobras scandal growing and the economy sinking, the protests have gotten bigger and broader, with many demonstrators saying they initially voted for Rousseff. Protesters say Rousseff should be impeached for failing to halt the corruption at Petrobras. On the other hand, labor unions, social activists and groups such as the Landless Workers Movement who support the government have organized their own marches. The demonstrations are meant as a show of force for democracy, with participants saying the President was democratically elected and can not be impeached. But participation has not been consistently strong. The President has said Petrobras should be cleaned up. Has she done anything about it ?. She says she's given prosecutors and the Federal Police free rein to investigate the Petrobas scandal. Some of her allies who have been implicated in the investigation think Rousseff should do more to protect them. This scandal has been known publicly for at least a year, and during Rousseff's election campaign, she said she would root out corruption. The Brazilian economy was booming for the good part of a decade, bolstered by voracious demand for its commodities from China. But with China's economy cooling, Brazil has failed to find a successful alternative to promote growth and shore up investor confidence. Now, with the President's approval rating abysmally low, it will be difficult to implement the savings needed to get the economy back on track. Rousseff has appointed a market-friendly economy minister, Joaquim Levy, to try and fix the country's fiscal problems. But in the current political crisis, he hasn't been able to make much progress.
Nairobi, Kenya ( CNN ) They were sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, friends and fellow citizens. They were students and dreamers, pursuing their ambition for a better life. And on Tuesday night, Kenyans remembered them as innocent victims of a terrorist attack that stunned a nation and left communities heartbroken. The gathering started with quiet chatter among a crowd of hundreds before mourners went silent and moved toward one end of Nairobi's Uhuru Park. Organizers unloaded 147 crosses from a truck and quietly planted them in the ground. Mourners read names of some of the victims as candles flickered in the dark. The crowd then sang the national anthem. The attack at a university in Garissa on Thursday killed 147 people, mostly students. The Al-Shabaab militant group claimed responsibility. As the country mourned the victims, others took to social media to humanize them by sharing their stories. They talked about aspiring lawyers, doctors and teachers. ``I can't even look at pictures of the people killed without crying,'' said Mary Wambui, 32, who lives in Nakuru, hundreds of miles from Garissa. ``They were just children. They were trying to make a better life for themselves. Some were first to go to college in their communities. They died trying to get an education.''. Using the hashtag # 147notjustanumber, Kenyans used social media to talk about the lives of the victims. They shared pictures of beaming faces, full of life and energy, in happier days. They talked about parents too shocked to speak after identifying their children's bodies. ``We need to talk about the bright futures cut short,'' said Boniface Mwangi, who organized the vigil. ``Today's meeting will be a calling to say, `We need to remember the 147 ; they are not just a number.' We are trying to avoid remembering these people as just a number.''. Some students remain unaccounted for, and wailing relatives alternate their searches between hospitals and morgues. Kenyan authorities have not released a list of the names of the victims. At Uhuru Park, right next to the crosses, a bulletin board featured 32 photos of the young students. ``With the previous attacks, there's been a sense of the victims just being numbers,'' Doreen Areri said. ``The idea behind this is to have faces behind the numbers. We need to hear their stories, their dreams.''. Kellie Murungi said she got some solace from the vigil. ``In 2010, I was in a grenade attack in downtown Nairobi and every time there's a terrorist attack, it hits too close to home,'' Murungi said.'' It's not just happened to me, but many others.''. The vigil was important for the healing process, she said, because ``we shouldn't have people walking around with scars.''. It was the deadliest attack in the nation since al Qaeda killed more than 200 people at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi in 1998. In the Garissa attack, the terrorists separated Christians from Muslims, making some recite verses from the Quran. Those who couldn't quote the holy book tried to flee the gunfire, but whizzing bullets sent them to the ground. Others scampered into closets and stayed there for hours. Images from the scene showed heaps of students, faces down, lying in pools of blood. ``Those images will haunt us forever,'' said Martin Otieno, 29, who lives in Nairobi. ``As a nation, we should never let this happen. We just can't.''. Kenya launched airstrikes Monday targeting Al-Shabaab's training camps in Somalia, according to a military source, adding that the strikes were not retribution for last week's massacre at the university. ``The latest attack of Al-Shabaab bases by the Kenya military is part of the ongoing operations that started in 2011. It is not a retaliation to the Garissa attack. The operation has been ongoing,'' the source said Monday. Kenyan authorities had intelligence beforehand that a university in Garissa could be attacked, yet the country's rapid response team was stuck in Nairobi for hours after the massacre awaiting transport, a police source said Monday. It's unclear why the elite team was stuck in the Kenyan capital about 230 miles ( 370 kilometers ) west of the attack. Kenyan politicians and Nairobi-based journalists arrived on the scene before the team did. Once the team entered the university complex, the hourslong siege was quickly defused. But a government spokesman defended the response time. ``With the benefit of hindsight, you can always say things could have been done better,'' said Manoah Esipisu, a spokesman for Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta. However, he added, Kenyan authorities ``got the job done'' and saved lives. Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed echoed that sentiment in an interview with CNN on Monday. She denied reports that an elite rapid response team single-handedly ended the siege. ``We have a military garrison in Garissa, and the work began immediately after the attack was reported and continued for a number of hours until we were able to rescue 663 students of the 800 students that had been taken hostage by these terrorists. So the response was adequate,'' she said. ``We did everything that we could do.''. Kenya's Interior Ministry named Mohamed Mohamud as the organizer of the attack. The senior Al-Shabaab leader is also known by the aliases Dulyadin and Gamadhere, it said. The ministry offered a reward of 20 million Kenyan shillings, or about $ 215,000, for information on his whereabouts. He is in charge of external operations against Kenya, according to a government document, and commands the militia along the border. Another terrorist involved in the attacks is Abdirahim Abdullahi, a Kenyan-Somali and the son of a government chief in Mandera, authorities said. Mandera is in northern Kenya. Dorm becomes scene of a slaughter. Al-Shabaab is based in Somalia, and its violence has spread to Kenya before. In 2013, militants attacked Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall, leaving 67 people dead. The terror group has intensified attacks in Kenya since the country sent troops to Somalia four years ago to help battle the militants. CNN's David McKenzie and Joseph Netto reported from Nairobi, and Faith Karimi reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Michael Martinez contributed from Los Angeles.
( CNN ) Indonesia has a tough stance on drug smugglers, and since assuming office in October, President Joko Widodo has made it clear he intends to show no mercy toward those found guilty of such crimes. That tough stance casts a further pall on two Australian drug smugglers, part of the so-called ``Bali Nine.''. They are waiting to learn whether they will be put to death by firing squad after an Indonesian court rejected a last ditch effort to gain clemency from Widodo on Monday. April marks a decade on death row for Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran for their part in a failed heroin smuggling plot. The 31-year-old Chan has been called the ringleader and 33-year-old Sukumaran has been described as his collaborator. The seven others who took part in the operation are serving lengthy prison sentences for trafficking the drugs. The members of the Bali Nine were arrested after Indonesian police received a tip from Australian Federal Police. Four members of the group were caught at Denpasar International Airport with more than 8 kilograms of heroin strapped to their bodies. Four others, including Sukumaran, were arrested at a hotel in the village of Kuta. Although he wasn't carrying any drugs, Chan was detained after boarding a plane to Sydney. He was named by others as the mastermind of the smuggling plot. While the purported ringleaders have received media attention for years, the other seven members of the Bali Nine have rarely been in the spotlight. Here's a quick look at the other members of the group :. Scott Rush. Indonesian prosecutors asked for and received a sentence of life in prison for several of the Bali Nine, who were identified as drug couriers in the operation. That includes Scott Rush of Brisbane, Australia. Rush was 19 when he was captured in Indonesia. He was arrested at Denpasar Airport with more than 1 kilogram of heroin strapped to his body. Michael Czugaj. Life in prison was the original sentence for 29-year-old Michael Czugaj, also of Brisbane. Nineteen at the time of his arrest, Czugaj is one of five of the Bali Nine whose sentence was reduced to 20 years in prison, then reinstated at life again. During his trial, Czugaj testified he was lured into the drug scheme with the promise of a free holiday to Bali. He was quoted in news reports as saying his life was threatened, as well as his family's, if he refused to cooperate with the heroin smuggling operation. Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen. Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen from Brisbane, who is now 31, was one of four drug couriers in the case. He was found in a hotel room on Bali's Kuta Beach with a small amount of heroin and drug paraphernalia. Si Yi Chen and Matthew Norman. The others are Si Yi Chen, 30 and Matthew Norman, 28, both from Sydney. Foreignprisoners.com quotes Chen as saying he deeply regrets his actions and did not mean to hurt others, especially his family. Norman is quoted on the same website expressing remorse for his actions and hopes that people back home, ``don't judge me too harshly.'' He says he has two sisters including a twin. Foreignprisoners.com is run by Foreign Prisoner Support Service, a nonprofit organization based in South Africa. Martin Stephen and Rena Lawrence. The same website details information about Martin Stephens, now 39, and the only woman in the Bali Nine, 37-year-old Renae Lawrence. Stephens was a former bartender from Towradgi, a suburb of Wollongong in New South Wales. He claims he was forced to travel to Bali and take part in the drug smuggling operation after death threats against his family. Lawrence, from Newcastle in New South Wales, Australia, was arrested with heroin strapped to her body. She claims Chan threatened her life if she did not take part in the scheme. During her court appeal, Lawrence apologized to Indonesia for her actions. Her original life sentence was also reduced to 20 years. During a court appearance in 2006, Chan denied threatening anyone. He told the Denpasar District Court before his sentencing in February of that year : ``A lot of lies have been said against me, but the true reality is I'm not what people put me out to be. I've never threatened anybody in my life.''. The Denpasar District Court also dismissed claims that Chan made threats against Lawrence and Rush when the two were sentenced in 2006. Australia has repeatedly called for clemency for Chan and Sukumaran. Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said Monday, ``The Government is disappointed at today's decision by the State Administrative Court of Jakarta to reject the appeals of Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran. We understand that the legal team for Mr. Chan and Mr. Sukumaran is considering other legal options.''. In a news release posted to the Australian government's website, Bishop cited the ``extensive rehabilitation'' both men have undergone and said she will continue to appeal to her counterpart while Australia continues to ``use all diplomatic options to seek a stay of execution.''
( CNN ) The abduction of more than 200 schoolgirls a year ago this week captured global attention and inspired the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls, but the horrors for Nigeria's children are widespread. ``Around 800,000 children have been forced to flee their homes as a result of the conflict in northeast Nigeria between Boko Haram, military forces and civilian self-defense groups,'' UNICEF said Monday. The ``number of children running for their lives within Nigeria, or crossing over the border to Chad, Niger and Cameroon, has more than doubled in just less than a year.''. UNICEF released a report on the crisis titled ``Missing Childhoods.''. It also launched a social media campaign using the hashtag #bringbackourchildhood. The campaign has ``leading Snapchat artists'' sharing images based on drawings from children in Nigeria, Chad, Niger and Cameroon. Artwork can also be seen on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Tumblr. More than 1.5 million people have fled their homes due to the violence, UNICEF said. About 1.2 million are displaced internally, while others have crossed into Cameroon, Chad and Niger. ``The vast majority of the displaced -- more than 880,000 -- are staying with host communities with little access to humanitarian support, putting additional strains on already stretched health, education and social services,'' it said. The April 14, 2014, kidnappings at a girls school in Chibok by the Islamist group Boko Haram ``is only one of endless tragedies being replicated on an epic scale across Nigeria and the region,'' said Manuel Fontaine, UNICEF regional director for West and Central Africa. ``Scores of girls and boys have gone missing in Nigeria -- abducted, recruited by armed groups, attacked, used as weapons, or forced to flee violence. They have the right to get their childhoods back.''. Kids are being used by Boko Haram as combatants, cooks, and lookouts, UNICEF said. ``Young women and girls are being subjected to forced marriage, forced labor and rape,'' it said. At least 196 teachers and 314 schoolchildren were killed in 2014, and more than 300 schools were damaged or destroyed.
Kabul, Afghanistan ( CNN ) It is a strangely detached scene for the close of America's longest war : military trainers bouncing between multi-million dollar, high security bases, on Black Hawks, miles from the front line. But it is how Washington wants this to be. And even though the departure of American troops will be fractionally slower, they will all be inside the U.S. Embassy by the end of next year, making these some of their last weeks outside of the wire. We are near Jalalabad, at a regional logistics hub for the Afghan police force -- a generous facility that was originally intended to resupply the entire east of the country with uniforms, ammunition, even fuel for vehicles. The intentions, first hatched in 2011 when the U.S. had tens of thousands of troops and still large ambitions for their war here, were large in scale. But the project has been handed between rotations of U.S. officers and is perhaps a little distant from its first conception. We are taken on a proud tour of a series of clean and newly painted blocks. Dozens of Afghan police gather there, and mill around, waiting for their commanders to arrive. Nick Paton Walsh's Afghanistan series : Afghan forced to marry her rapist. Yet a few problems are immediately visible. There are no doorhandles on the outer doors -- we're told they've been removed while a new master key is being sought. There seem to be few supplies in the actual hub. We ask the Afghan policemen how many of them get resupplied there, at this stage, four months since it opened, and they say : none. About 20 units a month file paperwork for resupply in the base, but supplies often still come from where they did before -- Kabul. U.S. officials told us they are optimistic the logistical road ahead can be smoothed -- that in the 18 plus months they have left they can get the Afghan army and police up to furnishing themselves with the supply lines they need. But here, now, that seems far away. As does the base, incidentally. It's quite a rough drive from the main road, surrounded by hills, and with at best patchy cellphone coverage -- far from ideal for a transit hub. Nick Paton Walsh's Afghanistan series : ISIS recruits in Taliban territory. And it is far away in terms of its cost. Like so much in the most costly of wars, its price tag may have made sense in briefings on Capitol Hill, where effectiveness is gauged in millions, but here in dusty eastern Afghanistan, it seems exorbitant. This as-yet, partially functional resupply hub cost $ 21 million, a price that presumably includes new doorhandles. There are about fifty Afghan police currently on the base -- meaning each one has so far cost $ 400,000 to the US taxpayer. But this is an unfair way of representing the challenge the U.S. trainers here face : working, as they are, against a clock, with diminishing resources and public interest, in an endlessly complex and often corrupt land where, when the Taliban aren't thriving, ISIS are waiting in the wings to fill the gap. With the clock ticking in the background, U.S. officer Colonel JB Vowell remains upbeat : ``It's going to be a challenge, to get all those little hubs and spokes -- logistics to maintenance, supplies, resupply. I'm optimistic though ; much of this didn't exist in November.''. On the outskirts of the base are the relics of the U.S.'s military involvement in a conflict that still continues to kill Afghan security forces at an accelerated rate. SUVs, even old American Humvees -- now gifted to Afghan police to drive around -- lie disabled by mine strikes. The Americans were hoping the police could stack the vehicles here, assess their resupply needs, or cannibalize the damaged vehicles for spare parts. Throughout, the surreal changes in how this war was, and continues to be, fought are omnipresent. Years ago, the threat would have mostly been from insurgents taking potshots at an American base. Now we are far from the threat, but another has taken its place. Surrounding our crew at all times are ``Guardian Angels'' -- U.S. soldiers on guard duty, protecting their own from rogue Afghan police or soldiers, trying to prevent the newest and most serious scourge -- ``green on blue'' attacks, in which Afghan security forces turn their guns on Americans. It is a strange experience to be protected from those who America seeks to hand the country over to. But this is how the war ended. Not with ideological victories, or dramatic withdrawals, just the slow and deliberate stepping to one side.
( CNN ) UltraHaptics is a young company with a big dream : changing the way we interact with electronic devices. Their technology creates tactile three-dimensional shapes literally out of thin air, using ultrasound. The company's tagline says it all : ``Feeling without touching.''. Through an emission of sound waves, sensations are projected through the air and to the user. Changes in air pressure are perceived as suspended tactile surfaces, creating invisible -- but tangible -- interfaces. This already sounds quite intriguing, but paired with another rising technology it has the potential to become a game changer. The rising tide of virtual reality seems unstoppable : Facebook's Oculus Rift and Magic Leap are leading the pack, but several other companies are readying devices in a field that could shake the foundations of electronic entertainment. But even though it is incredibly convincing, virtual reality completely bypasses the sense of touch : applying UltraHaptics' technology to it would allow users to not just see the virtual world projected in front of their eyes, but to touch it as well. Tom Carter, UltraHaptics' CTO, sees potential in the merging of these technologies : ``The ability to put on your virtual reality goggles and not just explore visually and through your headphones, but also touch what you can see, is a really exciting possibility,'' he told CNN's Nick Glass. Creating buttons and shapes literally anywhere they're needed opens up a slew of possibilities for more traditional devices as well. ``Imagine the dashboard of a car having no buttons, no switches, no ugly controls : just a very nice, sleek dashboard. ``If you're driving and you want to have the music up for example, you don't have to take your eyes off the road, you just hold your hand out and the controls stick to your hand, so you can feel them.''. Smartphones and other popular devices could also see benefits : controlling appliances in the kitchen, using TVs and computers in a style reminiscent of the movie ``Minority report'', or even snoozing the alarm in the morning would all become just a matter of waving your hands. ( This probably wouldn't be the most virtuous application of the technology. ). Several devices can already be controlled with gestures, but UltraHaptics add an extra layer of feedback, by generating the sensation of a force field : ``Haptics is more than just the sense of touch. It's really all of the information that you get from the sense of touch. What you're feeling, what sort of pressure, the tactile sensation given by an object or surface. You also know where your limbs are and how they're moving, all from the sense of touch. It's all this information that cues how you're interacting with the world,'' Carter said. To create their invisible buttons, UltraHaptics use a small collection of ultrasonic speakers, concentrating the sound waves to a specific point. Sound travels through air by creating a pressure differential, so by focusing several of these differentials to a target location, the result is a single localized spot of high pressure. ``If you put your hand in the way, it actually emits enough of a force on your hand to slightly displace your skin. ``We use that and control it to vibrate your skin, and give you this feeling. What you eventually get is a sensation of vibration on your hands,'' Carter explained. With the current prototype, the smallest point that can be created is 8.5 millimeters in diameter, but the shape can be morphed into a surface, creating different textures over a single ``object'' by differentiating the pressure levels. Other companies are working on similar projects, such as Elliptic Labs, and the interest around the technology already appears to be strong. UltraHaptics, who have already built several prototypes and have demoed the technology to the public at the last CES in Las Vegas, say they are working with 15 to 20 clients who are looking to incorporate tactile ultrasound into their products. ``We have everything from consumer electronics companies making things like speakers, radios, alarm clocks, through home appliance companies making cooker hoods, washing machines, to virtual reality in gaming companies. And we were very surprised at how keen the automotive industry is to work with us,'' Carter said. ``I'd like to believe that the first product featuring our technology will be on the shelves in a year, that's our aim.''. Read more from Make, Create, Innovate :. Great photos from the world's smallest satellites. So long, transistor : How the `memristor' could revolutionize electronics. Laser procedure can turn brown eyes blue.
( CNN ) Blinky and Pinky on the Champs Elysees ? Inky and Clyde running down Broadway ? Power pellets on the Embarcadero ?. Leave it to Google to make April Fools' Day into throwback fun by combining Google Maps with Pac-Man. The massive tech company is known for its impish April Fools' Day pranks, and Google Maps has been at the center of a few, including a Pokemon Challenge and a treasure map. This year the company was a day early to the party, rolling out the Pac-Man game Tuesday. It's easy to play : Simply pull up Google Maps on your desktop browser, click on the Pac-Man icon on the lower left, and your map suddenly becomes a Pac-Man course. Twitterers have been tickled by the possibilities, playing Pac-Man in Manhattan, on the University of Illinois quad, in central London and down crooked Lombard Street in San Francisco, among many locations :.
( CNN ) Aaron Hernandez is known for his swagger. Should he act any differently when he's on trial for murder ?. When the once rising star for the New England Patriots walks into court each day with what appears to be an air of confidence -- or is it bravado ? -- he enters from a connecting holding room. Some court security officers who escort him are as tall and muscular as he is. Besides that certain bounce to his step, there's usually a smile. Jury deliberations resume Wednesday. Watch ``Downward Spiral : Inside the Case against Aaron Hernandez'' tonight at 9 p.m. ET. It hasn't been there as often in the last couple of weeks when state witnesses have included his fiancée Shayanna Jenkins and his former boss, New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who testified Hernandez would usually greet him with a kiss and a hug. Always impeccably dressed in suit and tie brought in by his defense team, Hernandez quickly scans the courtroom, usually starting with the rows of seats directly behind him. The front row is reserved for his family. Some days, none of his relatives is there. But when his mother, fiancée, brother and other friends attend, he winks, nods, smiles, jokes, laughs, flirts with his fiancée and mouths greetings to them including'' `thanks for coming' and' I love you.'''. Twice, he nodded his head and smiled at me. It's not unusual for his lawyers to slap him on his back and huddle before court begins, appearing at ease. They've been representing him since June 2013. There was an unfortunate moment. His mother once asked permission from a court officer to touch her son once the jury left the room. Given an OK, she reached over the bar to him, took one of his hands in hers and kissed it. Rules forbid contact. It did not go unnoticed by the family of victim Odin Lloyd. Hernandez does not avoid looking in their direction. He glances at Lloyd's relatives. Lloyd's mother Ursula Ward, who is in court daily, appears to look right back at Hernandez without expression from her usual seat on the end of a row. When one witness, a high school friend, testifies that Hernandez once allegedly talked about carrying a gun, Hernandez appears to glare at him. When his fiancée takes the stand and testifies Hernandez told her to ditch a box from their basement the day after Lloyd's slaying, his eyes are glued on her. She barely glances his way but does appear to say something as she passes the defense table on the way out. When Kraft is asked to officially point out Hernandez in court and describe what he was wearing, I watch Hernandez look down at his shirt and tie as Kraft detailed his outfit. When the team owner leaves the stand -- the same man who signed him to a $ 40 million bonus in 2012 -- Hernandez turns and watches him walk out of the courtroom. Would it be the last time he'd see him in person ?. On the last day of testimony when his defense rests its case, he smiles at relatives. But as he walks out the door this time, he doesn't look back.
( CNN ) In the beginning.. there was the Bible, and it was a very Good Book. But this Catholic hadn't read it -- at least, not from cover to cover. So, in the middle of Holy Week, I decided to finally take the plunge. Let me explain. My name is Laura Bernardini and I'm a director of coverage at CNN, which means I manage our newsgathering and newsroom in Washington. I'm also a lifelong Catholic. At work this week, I was talking with some colleagues about Pope Francis' upcoming trip to the United States. During the course of that conversation, I admitted something that has privately bothered me for a long time. I have never read the Bible from Genesis to Revelation. This from someone who jokingly refers to herself as the highest-ranking Catholic in the bureau. My excuse always has been that Catholics have their Bible passages read to them at Mass every Sunday. And there are so many people that can so effortlessly quote long and beautiful passages. I love to read, there is no excuse. Still, it made me wonder : Why I had not read the Good Book cover to cover ?. I took a scriptures class in 9th grade of my Catholic high school, but we moved through that year with only selected passages to journal about. Later, when I graduated, my grandparents gave me a beautiful Bible that has traveled with me from Vermont to Montreal to Atlanta and finally to Washington. But in 24 years, I never so much as cracked the cover, other than to write the date I received the gift. In that newsroom conversation this week, Daniel Burke, the religion editor at CNN.com, suggested I read the Bible each day for a year and chronicle it weekly for Belief. I will admit to being pretty stunned and a little scared at the prospect. I figured that no one would care about my thoughts or my process. I am no scholar, no expert on scripture, as should be obvious. But the more we talked, the more the idea grew on me. I have committed to training regimens for 5Ks and countless diets, so why not try this ? I have been looking for a form of meditation in my hectic life. This might just be it. My friends seem excited about this project, sending me some of their favorite passages, which I'm keeping a list of. One Catholic friend offered to join me, suggesting I get a blank journal to help me take notes. The colleague that I sit next to everyday has already sent me his Bar Mitzvah passage and wants to discuss it when I get there. Another friend's daughter is making her first Holy Communion in May, and has also offered to connect us because her class is reading the Bible in school. So, in a way, I'm going back to first grade in Catholic school. Yay for me. Overall, my friends and family are mainly curious how this journey will end. I am, too. Will I make it all the way to Revelation come next spring ?. I start on Easter Sunday. I hope you'll join me.
( CNN ) Mao Zedong's ``Little Red Book,'' a selection of the chairman's quotations, was required reading during China's Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and 70s. China has now updated the practice for the digital age -- launching a smartphone app starring its current leader, President Xi Jinping, and featuring his latest speeches, statements and publications. Designed by the Central Party School, which trains Chinese Communist Party leaders, the app aims to ``arouse enthusiasm'' for socialist ideologies. ``With the help of Internet technology, we hope that the theories of socialism with Chinese characteristics will be presented in a way that appeals to web users,'' Chen Jiancai, the managing editor of the school's official web site, said, according to Xinhua, China's state news agency. The app features the latest news about Xi and allows users to access the traditional texts that Xi quotes from. It even has an interactive map that allows you to pinpoint exactly where he made the speeches. It's unclear how many people have downloaded the app, which is available on Apple's App Store. Willy Lam, a China politics scholar at the Chinese University of Hong Kong told CNN the app forms part of Xi's efforts to cultivate a very different image to his predecessors. Xi is keen to be portrayed as a strong leader and as a man of the people -- he's been photographed eating dumplings and has appeared in three animated cartoons. His down-to-earth behavior has drawn a huge number of fans, who address him as ``Xi Dada'' -- Big Uncle Xi -- but it's also aroused concern among some China analysts, who believe that Xi is using the state propaganda apparatus to build a cult of personality. ``This is the 21st century's Little Red Book,'' Lam says. ``He wants to be the supreme authority and build his prestige. The personality cult campaign will only grow.''. The app drew mixed reviews online and on social media. One headline on a technology news site read ``How can you call yourself Chinese if you don't download it ?''. Some said the app, called Xuexi Zhongguo, which translates to ``study China,'' would be a handy study tool. ``Xuexi Zhongguo is an extremely useful app.. for civil servants selection tests,'' says one Weibo user @afeixiaoxiaozhuai. But others said they would boycott it. ``If they introduce an Android version, I'll get an iPhone. And if it's in Apple Store, I'll say I can only afford an Android phone. If they are available on both systems, I'll get a Nokia -- sorry, I can't afford a smartphone,'' said @Mujia.
( The Hollywood Reporter ) Stan Freberg, whose freewheeling comic career in advertising garnered him worldwide acclaim and whose satirical entertainments abounded on TV, the radio and on records, has died. He was 88. Freberg died of natural causes at a Santa Monica hospital, his son and daughter, Donavan and Donna Freberg, confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter. ``He was and will always be my hero, and I will carry his brilliant legacy forward as best I am able,'' his son wrote on Facebook. The godfather of humorous and irreverent commercials, Freberg lampooned cultural institutions and described himself as a ``guerilla satirist.'' The New York Times dubbed him the ``Che Guevara of advertising,'' and years later, ``Weird Al'' Yankovic called him a major influence on his career. ``Very sad to say that one of my absolute all-time heroes has just passed away,'' Yankovic wrote on Twitter. ``RIP Stan Freberg. A legend, an inspiration, and a friend.''. Freberg also was known for his musical parodies. ``Wun `erful Wun `erful,'' his 1957 spoof of ``champagne music'' -- on which he collaborated with orchestra leader Billy May -- lampooned ``The Lawrence Welk Show.''. He also parodied Johnnie Ray's hit ``Cry,'' which Freberg rendered as ``Try.'' ( Ray was quite angry until he realized Freberg was fueling sales of his record. ). The Los Angeles native had hit records of his own, including ``St. George and the Dragonet,'' a 1953 send-up of the series ``Dragnet.'' His recordings were so popular that he landed his own radio program in 1954, ``That's Rich.'' Three years later, he presented ``The Stan Freberg Show'' on CBS Radio, where he regularly mocked commercials by advertising bogus products. Hollywood Reporter : ``Mad Men's'' return. He won a Grammy Award in 1959 for best performance, documentary or spoken word for ``The Best of the Stan Freberg Shows.''. Earlier in the 1950s, Freberg helped create and write the Emmy Award-winning comedy ``Time for Beany,'' also working with puppets and performing on the show. Its droll, off-the-wall humor appealed to fans including Albert Einstein. During Beany's early gestation, he and the other writers had no office, so they wrote in coffee shops at night as well as in an ``office'' in a condemned building. Not surprisingly, Freberg ruffled institutional feathers. Capitol Records balked at releasing his satires of radio-TV personality Arthur Godfrey and Ed Sullivan's variety show ``Toast of the Town.''. Hollywood Reporter : ``Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles'' -- the untold story. Freberg disdained the hard sell. He created such classic comic ad capers as ``Nine out of 10 doctors recommend Chun King Chow Mein,'' and his Jeno's Frozen Pizza campaign featured the Lone Ranger and Tonto. He skewered the greed of the ad business in ``Green Chri $ tma $, which criticized the over-commercialization of the holiday. In 1958, Freberg opened his own ad agency, Freberg Ltd. His slogan was ``More Honesty Than the Client Had in Mind,'' and he even had a corporate motto : ``Ars Gratia Pecuniae'' ( Art of the Sake of Money ). Freberg, whose inspirations were Jack Benny, Fred Allen and Norman Corwin, worked in cartoons for decades, starting in the 1940s. He provided the voice for Junyer Bear in the 1948 Chuck Jones Looney Tunes cartoon ``What's Brewin', Bruin,'' and he famously played the three pigs, the wolf and the singing narrator in another Looney Tunes classic, 1957's ``Three Little Bops.'' He teamed often at Warner Bros. with the great Mel Blanc. Freberg also was the voice of Beaver in Disney's ``Lady and the Tramp'' ( 1955 ). For the feature Looney Tunes, ``Back in Action'' ( 2003 ), he was heard as a baby bear. Survivors also include his wife, Hunter, and a granddaughter. © 2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
Garissa, Kenya ( CNN ) First came the gunshots. Then the footsteps, as Al-Shabaab militants followed her into her dorm room. Cynthia Cheroitich went into a closet, covering herself with clothes. Her two roommates hid under their beds, until the gunmen called them out. '' ( The gunmen ) told them if you don't know to read to them in the Muslim word, whatever, and then you lie down,'' Cheroitich told CNN. ``And then, if you know, you go to the other side.''. The 19-year-old student at Kenya's Garissa University College didn't see what happened next, but she heard more than enough. ``They were shooting everywhere,'' she said. ``I didn't want to open my eyes.''. For the next two days, Cheroitich didn't budge. Unable to get to water, she hydrated by drinking body lotion. When police went into her room -- well after the carnage was done, with 147 dead at the school -- she didn't believe them. Only a visit by the head of the university convinced her that, finally, it was safe to come out. ``I was scared so much,'' she recalled. Cheroitich's survival story, which she recounted to CNN on Saturday, is a rare bright spot in what has been a horrific week in Garissa, a town about 90 miles from the Somali border, and throughout Kenya. It is all due to Al-Shabaab, the Islamist extremist group that is based in Somalia but hasn't confined its terrorism to there -- as evidenced by Thursday's university attack and the 2013 siege of Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall. Saturday, the terrorist group warned that more carnage is coming as it promised ``another bloodbath'' in Kenya. The threat drew a sharp response from Nadif Jama, the governor of Garissa county. ``The fallacy and satanic mindset of Al-Shabaab is that in Somalia, they kill Muslims and Somalis,'' Jama said. ``They cross the border here and then say they are killing non-Muslims. That is a tricky way of doing business.''. Jama said the militants were ``bent on nothing but destruction'' and aimed to sow division between Muslims and non-Muslims. ``But that is something we need to fight,'' Jama said. Police in Garissa on Saturday paraded the bodies of men they said had carried out the attack. The corpses -- locked in a macabre embrace and partially wrapped in an orange tarp -- were piled on the back of a pickup truck and driven to a primary school soccer pitch for viewing. A large crowd gathered, despite the baking sun and foul stench. The truck drove up next to the onlookers, so that they could inspect the bodies. Anger seethed in the crowd. ``These gunmen, they killed innocent children. We want to burn these people,'' one man told CNN. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta also had some harsh words Saturday for Al-Shabaab, as well as any those who supported them. Five arrested in Kenya attack. In a nationally televised speech, Kenyatta said the nation's fight against terrorism ``has been made all the more difficult by the fact that the planners and the financiers of this brutality are deeply embedded in our communities and were seen previously as ordinary, harmless people.''. Kenyatta condemned ``corruption of the worst and most criminal kind ( when ) Kenyans.. finance, hide and recruit on behalf of Al-Shabaab.''. ``There is no form of legal penalty, social shaming and godly condemnation that they do not deserve, to the fullest extent,'' the President said. Describing Al-Shabaab as an ``existential threat to our republic,'' Kenyatta urged his fellow Kenyans to ``tell those that believe a caliphate is possible in Kenya that we are one indivisible, sovereign and democratic state.''. ``That fight will never change,'' he added. ``Our forefathers bled and died for this nation. And we will do everything to defend our way of life.''. Kenyatta declared three days of national mourning for the victims of the attack. Inside Garissa University College dorm's scene of slaughter. Christian Purefoy reported from Garissa. CNN's David McKenzie, Jethro Mullen and Jessica King contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) Rick Santorum says he'd hoped Indiana Gov. Mike Pence would veto the ``fix'' to his state's religious freedom law rather than limiting its scope. The law unleashed an intense backlash against Indiana, led by tech giants like Apple and Salesforce and sports organizations like the NCAA, amid concerns it would allow businesses to turn away gay and lesbian customers. Santorum, the former Republican senator from Pennsylvania, who is likely to mount another presidential campaign in 2016, said on CBS' ``Face the Nation'' on Sunday that Pence's decision to sign a follow-up bill -- which made clear the law couldn't be used to refuse services based on sexual orientation -- led to a ``limited view'' of religious freedom. ``It doesn't really open the debate up on some of the more current issues,'' Santorum said -- a reference to gay rights issues. With the Supreme Court set to rule in June on whether same-sex marriage should be legalized nationwide, social conservatives like Santorum have asserted that Christian bakers, florists and wedding photographers shouldn't be forced to provide their services to same-sex weddings. The Indiana uproar drew nearly all of the GOP's 2016 contenders into the debate, with candidates like Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz rushing to Pence's defense. ``Tolerance is a two-way street,'' Santorum said. ``If you're a print shop and you are a gay man, should you be forced to print `God hates fags' for the Westboro Baptist Church because they hold those signs up ?'' Santorum said. ``Should the government force you to do that ?'' he said. ``And that's what these cases are all about. This is about the government coming in saying, `No -- we're going to make you do this.' And this is where I think we just need some space to say, `Let's have some tolerance -- have it be a two-way street.'''. Gay rights groups, meanwhile, have used the outrage over Indiana's law -- as well as a similar one that Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed into law -- and debate in at least 14 other states over similar measures this year to renew their calls for state laws that bar discrimination based on sexual orientation. Sarah Warbelow, the Human Rights Campaign's legal director, said the debate could shift to states like Texas and South Carolina, where similar bills have been introduced. She said tech companies like Facebook and Google are increasingly wading into the debate because they're recognizing that ``nondiscrimination protections are critical to every area of their employees' lives.''. Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the archbishop of the Catholic archdiocese in New York, said on NBC's ``Meet the Press'' on Sunday that the debate over religious freedom calls for a ``delicate balance.''. ``We've got to make sure that the rights of conscience and the ability to publicly exercise one's religion is also balanced with another good -- namely, the rights of people not to be discriminated against,'' he said. ``It's easier to ignore religious freedom than it is, today, the more popular issues,'' Dolan said. ``In a way, I appreciate the fact that we have political leaders like Gov. Pence that are saying, `Whoa, wait a minute. Without questioning the rights of the gay community, we also have to make sure that the rights of the religious community are protected.'''. ``I just wish we could do that in a temperate, civil way, instead of screaming at each other,'' he said.
( CNN ) Singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell has been hospitalized in Southern California. Paramedics from the Los Angeles Fire Department were called to her home around 2:30 p.m. PT ( 5:30 p.m. ET ) Tuesday on the report of a medical emergency, spokesman Robert Hinojosa said. ``Joni was found unconscious in her home ( Tuesday ) afternoon. She regained consciousness on the ambulance ride to an L.A. area hospital,'' according to her official website. ``She is currently in intensive care undergoing tests and is awake and in good spirits. More updates to come as we hear them. Light a candle and sing a song, let's all send good wishes her way.''. Some of Mitchell's best-known songs are ``Big Yellow Taxi,'' ``Help Me'' and ``Free Man in Paris,'' but she has penned hits for other artists too. Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young scored with her anthem ``Woodstock,'' about the 1969 landmark music festival. Judy Collins registered a Top 10 hit in 1967 with Mitchell's ``Both Sides Now.''. Mitchell, 71, was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1997.
( CNN ) Most climbers who try don't succeed in summiting the 29,035-foot-high Mount Everest, the world's tallest peak. But they do leave their trash. Thousands of pounds of it. That's why an experienced climbing group from the Indian army plans to trek up the 8,850-meter mountain to pick up at least 4,000 kilograms ( more than 8,000 pounds ) of waste from the high-altitude camps, according to India Today. The mountain is part of the Himalaya mountain range on the border between Nepal and the Tibet region. The 34-member team plans to depart for Kathmandu on Saturday and start the ascent in mid-May. The upcoming trip marks the 50th anniversary of the first Indian team to scale Mount Everest. ``Sadly, Mount Everest is now.. called the world's highest junkyard,'' Maj. Ranveer Singh Jamval, the team leader, told India Today. ``We will target the mountaineering waste from Camp 1 ( 19,695 feet ) to the summit,'' said Jamval, who has scaled Mount Everest twice. ``There are old cylinders, tents, tins, packets, equipment and other mountaineering waste. Apart from our own haversacks weighing 10 kg each, we intend to bring in another 10 kg each on the trip.''. More than 200 climbers have died attempting to climb the peak, part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Indian expedition isn't the first attempt to clean up the trash left by generations of hikers. Among the cleanup efforts is the Eco Everest Expedition, an annual trip launched in 2008 that is all about climbing ``in an eco-sensitive manner,'' bringing old refuse, in addition to that generated during the trip, down for disposal, according to the Asian Trekking website. Last year, Nepalese tourism authorities started to require hikers to carry out an extra 18 pounds of garbage, in addition to their own trash and human waste, according to the New York Times.
( CNN ) Slamming world powers' framework nuclear deal with Iran, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday demanded that any final deal include a ``clear and unambiguous Iranian recognition of Israel's right to exist.''. Netanyahu has been perhaps the most vocal critic of nuclear talks with Iran, insisting again and again it can't be trusted. He took his case to the U.S. Congress last month, at a time before negotiators had hammered out any sort of agreement, over the objections of President Barack Obama. There's never been any dispute about his take, but the Prime Minister has sharpened his rhetoric in recent days, saying the deal increases the risk of a ``horrific war.''. Iranian President : We will stick to our promises on nuclear deal. Netanyahu has lobbied hard for a deal that dismantles and disassembles Iran's nuclear infrastructure -- rather than limiting its usage or repurposing Iran's facilities -- but such stipulations were not part of the framework agreement. He has also called for the removal of sanctions to be tied to the reduction of what he characterizes as Iran's aggression in the region, not just its moves on its nuclear program. In the absence of both elements, Netanyahu is calling the emerging deal a historic mistake. After an emergency Cabinet meeting Friday afternoon hours before the Jewish holiday of Passover, Netanyahu said the agreement ``would pose a grave danger to the region and to the world and would threaten the very survival of the state of Israel.''. ''.. I want to make clear to all : The survival of Israel is non-negotiable,'' Netanyahu said. ``Israel will not accept an agreement which allows a country that vows to annihilate us to develop nuclear weapons, period.''. Obama called Netanyahu after Thursday's announcement of the framework agreement to reassure him that Israel's security will remain a prime concern in the ensuing negotiations and the final deal, which faces a June 30 deadline. ``There is no daylight when it comes to our support for Israel's security,'' Obama said, reaffirming the American commitment to Israel's security. But Netanyahu said he isn't convinced Israel is safe from Iran. ``Just two days ago, Iran said that `the destruction of Israel is non-negotiable.' And in these fateful days Iran is accelerating the arming of its terror proxies to attack Israel.''. The Israeli leader added that ``this deal would legitimize Iran's nuclear program, bolster Iran's economy and increase Iran's aggression and terror throughout the Middle East and beyond.''
( CNN ) Two passengers found dead on a cruise ship in Puerto Rico appear to have died in a murder-suicide, the cruise line said. Holland America Line said two guests were found dead inside their stateroom on the ms Ryndam at 11:30 a.m. Thursday. ``The cabin was immediately secured, and the authorities were notified, including the FBI,'' Holland America said. ``We are cooperating fully with the investigation, and the authorities will make the official determination on what occurred.''. FBI spokesman Moises Quiñones said authorities were on scene investigating. The ship left Tampa, Florida, on March 29 on a 14-day Southern Caribbean cruise. It's currently in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico Port Authority spokesman Efraín Santiago told El Nuevo Dia newspaper that the cleaning staff on the ship had discovered the deceased passengers after knocking on the cabin's door.
( CNN ) Iran's President on Friday hailed the proposed international deal on his country's nuclear program, vowing that Iran will stick to its promises and -- assuming other countries live up to their end of the bargain -- become a more active, engaged player in world affairs. ``Some think that we should either fight.. or we should surrender to other powers,'' President Hassan Rouhani said. ``However, we believe none of that. There is a third path. We can cooperate with the world.''. Rouhani said his government kept its word to Iranians when negotiating the framework deal, which was agreed upon Thursday and sets parameters for talks that could lead to a comprehensive deal by a June 30 deadline. Chief among them is that Iran would keep at least some centrifuges and no longer face international sanctions. He thanked Iranians for their patience and for ``resisting'' by standing up for the country's rights. As to the rest of the world, the Iranian President said he thinks most now realize that Iran ``is pursuing peaceful objectives.'' That means trying to develop nuclear energy, not nuclear weapons, as many feared. That fear, combined with distrust of Iran's leaders, spurred the sanctions and the Middle Eastern nation's isolation. ``We do not lie,'' Rouhani said, vowing that Iran will be true to its word, ``provided the other parties will implement their own promises.''. What Iranians think of the deal. Those promises include reducing Iran's stockpile of low-enriched uranium by 98 % for 15 years and significantly scaling back its number of installed centrifuges. Still, while it will be shrunken and centralized, Iran's nuclear program won't go away. What should happen -- assuming there's a common view that Tehran is doing as required -- is that countries will end their sanctions. That was non-negotiable for Iran, with Rouhani saying the deal shows his government's commitment to removing a major ``obstacle.. for business'' by addressing the world's worries about its nuclear program. ``We need economic productivity, employment for the youth and development of non-oil products,'' he said. ``Thus our people can witness better things for their welfare.''. It won't be easy, of course, to get Iran and the P5 +1 -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany -- on the same page regarding the nitty-gritty details of any final agreement, if there is one. After all, it took two extra days past a self-imposed deadline for the parties to reach a framework deal. What's in the deal ? 7 key points. That agreement followed about a decade of often failed negotiations and deep-rooted acrimony, particularly between Iran and the United States. Those tensions haven't disappeared, nor is there any guarantee that talks won't fall apart again over the next three months. Even as he applauded what he called a ``good deal,'' President Barack Obama pointed out Thursday that ``if Iran cheats, the world will know it.'' His government is also being pressed by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who blasted the agreement Friday as posing a ``grave danger'' by legitimizing Iran's nuclear program and making it easier for Iran to develop nuclear weapons. On the Iranian side, Foreign Minister Javad Zarif has acknowledged that ``mutual mistrust'' has long plagued talks. He notes Iran still has ``serious differences with the United States,'' even after Thursday's agreement. Still, Rouhani expressed hopes Friday the nuclear negotiations will change that by further opening up Iran to the rest of world, including long-standing adversaries. ``We do shake hands with them.. Even those countries we have tensions with, we would like an end to the animosity,'' he said. ``Cooperation and interaction would be in the interest of everyone.''. Netanyahu : Iran must recognize Israel's right to exist.
( CNN ) Tornadoes, fierce winds and severe thunderstorms with large hail are predicted for the Midwest and for the Plains, from the Ozarks eastward to the lower Ohio Valley, on Thursday and Friday, the National Weather Service said. Severe weather is perilous anytime, of course, but CNN meteorologist Chad Myers says that tornado conditions are more dangerous during the night. ``Tornadoes can be more deadly when people are sleeping and not paying attention to the warnings,'' he said. Scattered storms will soak Illinois and Missouri, and wind and hail will continue to be moderate in those states, the National Weather Service said. By Thursday afternoon, storms will hit parts of Indiana and Kentucky. Earlier this week, severe weather struck the South. Alabama, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Georgia reported large hail. Residents in Shawnee, Oklahoma, were awakened early Wednesday morning by a severe storm producing golf ball-sized hail. ``The hail came out of nowhere so it was kind of shocking,'' Sherri McDonald said to CNN in an iReport. The hail dinged her car.
( CNN ) Call it a little piece of heaven for a family torn apart by tragedy. Back in July, Sierra Sharry and Lane Smith were just about to become parents. Sharry was eight months pregnant. But then Smith fell and hit his head. He was taken to the OU Medical Center in Oklahoma City. Smith never recovered. ``July 13th 2014 was the absolute worst day of my life,'' Sharry posted on Facebook. ``I lost my best friend. The father of my unborn child.''. Their son Taos arrived a few weeks later. When it was time for his 6-month pictures, Sharry had a special request. Maybe the photographer could make their family complete, just for one picture. ``They asked me if I would be willing to `play around' with capturing their first family photo by editing Taos' daddy in one of their pictures,'' Kayli Rene' Photography posted on Facebook. ``I just got to thinking, we don't have a picture with Lane in it,'' the new mom told CNN affilaite KOCO. The photographer wasn't sure it would work, but they found just the right picture of Smith -- one that has him looking over his family's shoulder. ``Lane's not physically here with us, of course, but that picture represents to us that he is always watching over us and he will always be there for us no matter what,'' Sharry said. The family photo has become a social media sensation after appearing on the photographer's Facebook page this week. It has some 193,000 likes and more than 24,000 shares. ``I can't believe she actually did this,'' Sharry said. ``It's like amazing and apparently everyone else thinks it is too.''
( CNN ) Build a wall the length of the border with Somalia. Recruit and train up thousands of new security officers. Give them better tactics and equipment. Kenya's politicians and public have struggled with these ideas over and over. But the blood of 147 people slaughtered and 79 more injured, when Al-Shabaab opened fire at a college campus in Garissa on Thursday, has them debating them with renewed vigor. Many Kenyans had believed that security improved enough since Al-Shabaab held Nairobi's Westgate Mall under siege for four days in September 2013, resulting in the deaths of 67 people. Had it not, the massacre at Garissa University College would have been far worse, some say. Two police officers were on duty. But the number of people killed in the attack is plaguing Kenyans with self-doubt. With the highest death toll since the 1998 al Qaeda bombing on the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, many are saying security is still not tight enough. And days after the attack authorities revealed that rapid response forces arrived hours late, allowing the killings to drag on. So what should Kenya do ?. The answer is elusive. The battle with Al-Shabaab is not a new one, and every attempt at countering them has only helped stall the inevitable -- another attack, more deaths. Here are some of the problems plaguing Kenya's security efforts. The notion of building a wall is somewhat grandiose, since the border runs some 700 kilometers or 435 miles. Even with a wall, militants could arrive by sea to coastal towns in Kenya that have been Islamist strongholds. The border crosses through remote areas, and many Somalis have fled their country south to Kenya. Garissa, for example is populated by mainly ethnic Somalis. The border region has become so violent that many non-Muslims have fled it, according to the Council on Foreign Relations. The students at the university, many of them Christians, hailed mostly from other parts of Kenya. But Kenyans also cross north into Somalia, some to fight for Al-Shabaab, then they return home to help whip up fervor with its Kenyan affiliate al Hijra, CFR has said. The security situation may have deteriorated in recent years after Kenya's incursion into Somalia to battle Al-Shabaab there, CNN's David McKenzie said. Kenya wiped out some of the group's key bases there in Operation Linda Nchi, which began in 2011. But it made the group more diffuse -- and more likely to pop up and hit soft targets in Kenya, said terrorism expert Sajjan Gohel. It's also simply very difficult to protect every single target from attacks -- especially in Kenya. ``It will be impossible to provide adequate security throughout the country,'' Gohel said. Kenya will need a lot more help from its neighbors and the international community, including the United States, to contain Al-Shabaab. ``Al-Shabaab is not just a local terrorist group, it's a transnational outfit,'' he said. ``It operates throughout a number of countries and recruits even people from the West.''. McKenzie says Al-Shabaab is trying to maintain its relevance as other terror groups like Boko Haram, ISIS and al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula vie for power and influence. It's also possible that Al-Shabaab may have abandoned aspirations of seizing a large chunk of territory after taking losses in Somalia, and decided instead to focus purely on terrorism. These attacks by small armed groups against civilians are cost-effective, Gohel said. ``If the group's infrastructure and resources remain intact in Kenya, we will see more attacks taking place. This is not a one-off incident.''. Allegiances among groups can also play a role. In 2012, Al-Shabaab declared complete allegiance to al Qaeda. Previously, there had been a rift among the Somali terrorists over whether or not to pursue global jihad or just to concentrate on Somalia. Courts have snagged parts of Kenya's security plans over fears of government overreach. Kenya's government had recently passed a controversial law giving itself broad powers in the war on terror. But the High Court saw it as an affront to civil rights, and it struck down many of its details early this year, according to CFR. This included blocking the enrollment of 10,000 new police recruits. On Thursday, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta gave a directive to have them processed. He has already been accused of taking advantage of the public's fear of Al-Shabaab to widen police powers. Kenyatta's government, which is Christian dominated, has wielded an abusive hand against ethnic Somalis and other Muslims in Kenya, CFR and Human Rights Watch both have said. In April, security forces carried out raids in Nairobi and in regions with large Muslim populations, targeting ethnic Somalis. ``Security officers from multiple agencies raided homes, buildings, and shops, carting away money, cell phones, and other goods,'' HRW said. ``They harassed and detained thousands -- including journalists, refugees, Kenyan citizens and international aid workers -- without charge, and in appalling conditions for periods well beyond the 24-hour legal limit.''. The draconian approach has helped create fertile ground for extremists looking to radicalize individuals. The United Kingdom included Garissa in a recent warning of an imminent attack. And last month, the U.S. Embassy warned of possible attacks ``throughout Kenya in the near-term'' after the reported death of a key al-Shabaab leader, Adan Garaar, who was accused in the Westgate attack. Some Kenyans are now asking why security forces did not react to those warnings in advance by putting security in place. CNN's Soni Methu reported from Nairobi, and Ben Brumfield wrote this story in Atlanta ; CNN's Nick Thompson contributed to this report.
( CNN ) ``It really depends what you want. Boy ? Girl ? Young ? Old ?''. The man on the phone was offering us young children with the casualness of a market trader. After a week of back and forth phone calls, his initial caginess had given way to greed. He'd heard my foreign accent and clearly decided I would pay more than the domestic rate. ``We can get,'' he said. We'd been put in touch with the man through a contact on the ground. We were told he was one of the men running this ``unofficial'' displaced camp -- one of the many that has mushroomed in the town of Yola as the influx of people fleeing Boko Haram has grown beyond the capacity of the official camps. It had all been heartbreakingly simple. We'd asked who had children available to ``foster'' -- a catch-all code word designed to conceal the true intent of those offering up the orphaned children. The man on the phone was the end result of those inquiries. When our colleague want to see them, he was shown a group of children and asked which one he wanted to take. One, two maybe ? He escaped by saying he needed to check with his ``madam'' -- me. I called. The man picked up and began referring to me as ``sister.'' I told him we wanted to know what we'd need to do, if we decided we did want to ``foster'' the children. He told me, ``Sister, Jesus will reward me,'' so the ``fostering'' was free, he said. No need for any pesky paperwork -- just a reassurance from me that the children, if I chose to take them, would ``live in my heart.'' If I could also then find it ``in my heart'' to donate to those still in the camp, then that would be ``God's work.''. In spite of the harsh measures the Nigerian government has put in place to punish human traffickers, by the government's own admission, 8 million children are currently engaged in forced labor. The Global Slavery Index says Nigeria has the highest number of people in modern slavery of any sub-Saharan country. Paradoxically, the group also rates Nigeria's anti-trafficking agency, Naptip, as one of the strongest government responses on the continent -- but it's clearly overwhelmed by the realities of working in what is now a zone of military operations, Nigeria's north. As the insecurity in the region has spiraled, the worry is that more and more children are falling through the cracks. And as Boko Haram increases its reliance on child suicide bombers, concerns are growing that orphaned children could end up in the hands of the terror group. At the camp where we finally met the man face to face, there was no attempt at subterfuge. We spoke in normal tones in full view of the children playing. I could have had one of them, I was told, but because I'd specified a younger child, they'd only identified one so far -- a 3-year-old. Did I want to consider an older girl ? A 12-year-old maybe ? She could look after the 3-year-old, and cook and clean. Either way, two girls would be ready tomorrow, he said. I could see them then. Our last phone conversation revolved around what an appropriate ``donation'' would be in exchange for the children. He couldn't, he said, bargain for it. He then proceeded to do just that, laughing down the phone at my first tentative guess of $ 200. Laughing again at $ 300. We finally found a figure he didn't find funny -- $ 500. I put the phone down and we traveled back to the capital that day to show Naptip what we'd found.
( CNN ) Every week in the heart of Nima, a slum in the Ghanaian capital of Accra, families congregate at a local mosque. When the time comes, young girls say goodbye to their loved ones and part ways, filing up concrete steps leading up to the floor above. There, inside a large room dotted with brown tables, rows of flashing computer screens await for them. ``When the parents are praying -LSB- downstairs -RSB-, we are teaching the girls upstairs,'' explains tech entrepreneur Regina Agyare, who comes here every week to teach local teens how to code. Agyare's first visit to see the girls -- students at education project Achievers Ghana -- was in January 2014. This was supposed to be a one-off seminar as part of her mentorship initiative ``Tech Needs Girls'' -- however, the students proved quite a draw. ``I fell in love with them, so I decided to set up a coding club and started having regular sessions,'' says Agyare, founder of software development company Soronko Solutions. More importantly, continues Agyare, it offered the opportunity to show ``the community the value of educating girls.''. A predominantly Muslim area in a largely Christian nation, Nima has one of the densest populations in Accra. Agyare says life is often challenging for many local girls, with some growing up without ever leaving the community. ``Girls were being forced to marry early ; -LSB- denied -RSB- their right to go to school. Most of their dreams and aspirations were limited to just what was around them. ``I was shocked.. I thought we had progressed as a nation. I thought we had gone past that.''. This, in part, was why Agyare lent her support to Achievers Ghana. Set up by local Amadu Mohammad, the non-profit organization supports 250 girls between the age of six and 18, priming them for formal education through extracurricular classes in reading, math, poetry and information technology. Its goal is to break through social barriers and provide Nima with a generation of female role models, and so the group provides school funding to help the girls shape their own future. The project was bequeathed its classroom above the mosque it shares a building with, and Agyare says the two work closely together. Achievers Ghana met initial resistance from local conservatives, but when the mosque's chief imam Sheik Hussein Abdul Rahman championed Mohammad's vision, few maintained their reservations. Now, with parents paying a nominal fee towards the running of the organization, it is in everyone's interest that the girls succeed. Fourteen months after her first visit, Agyare's coding class is well established. She has set up a mentor scheme as part of ``Tech Needs Girls,'' recruiting and training women at university to act as role models for her younger students in Nima. In each class, around 50 girls are taught HTML and run a blog called ``Slum Voices''. ``I definitely feel -LSB- technology -RSB- has given them more of a voice,'' Agyare says. ``I feel like it's allowed them to express themselves and interact with others.. for them, it's important to be heard.''. Some girls had never used a computer before the classes began, but Agyare's even-handed approach has brought all her students up to the same standard. Agyare insists that ``we don't leave anyone behind.''. To that end, a few young male faces have found their way into her classroom. This was an accidental revelation, according to Agyare. She details the story of one affronted boy. ``He wrote that he didn't like it when he saw girls learning about computers.. it was difficult -LSB- for him -RSB- to see girls being empowered ; he wasn't used to that.''. Agyare realized that by integrating genders in her classroom she could begin to confront gender expectations. For many boys the role of a girl is ``to be their wife,'' Agyare explains, ``and she needs to be taken care of.'' However, by running mixed classes boys from an early age ``can learn to see a woman as a contributing person -LSB- within society -RSB-.''. Now the hope is that many of the young students will be able to go to university -- and Achievers Ghana is working on a scholarship program to make the prospect attainable. Agyare says the goal is not to turn every girl into software developers but to enable them to ``use technology in whatever field they find themselves.''. She adds : ``It would be great if we had some girls that decided to go on and study computer science, but really it's about helping them reach their full potential.. and bring change to the community.''. Read this : 5 reasons why tech needs geek girls. More from African Start-Up.
( CNN ) By now, you probably have a position regarding the controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law. You applaud the growing chorus of companies blasting the law as an invitation for businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians, using religion as a cover. Or, like Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, you are surprised at the backlash and maintain that it is basically a copy of a law that is already in the books at the federal level and 19 other states. The issue drives a wedge because, well, the debate over religious freedom and gay rights is always heated, but also because the interpretations and motives behind the law can be questioned. Whichever side you're on, here are five things you might not have considered when thinking about this controversy. These points might not change your mind, but offer context to better understand the uproar. As the author of the 1993 federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act ( RFRA ), Sen. Chuck Schumer is one who can offer clarity over the controversy surrounding Indiana's version of the law. Schumer mocks Indiana's contention that the state law is simply a mirror of the 22-year-old federal law. ``That may be true only if you're using a Funhouse mirror,'' Schumer wrote on his Facebook page. The federal law was intended to protect individual's religious freedom from government intervention, he said. The Indiana law justifies discrimination in the name of religious freedom, he contends. Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said. So, how can the law's supporters claim it is basically a copy of the federal law ?. If you look at the purpose of the law, the language in the federal and Indiana religious freedom laws are indeed nearly indistinguishable. In short -- the government can not interfere with a person's religious practices unless there is a compelling government interest to do so. The uproar is over that fact that the Indiana law expands the reach of the religious protections to include private companies and cases where the government is not involved. Other states previously passed their own version of the religious freedom law -- Indiana became the 20th. But other state laws mirror the federal law much more closely than the Indiana law does. The key difference in the Indiana law is that it expands the instances where someone can use religious freedom as a defense. This is how it could make a difference :. In 2006, Vanessa Willock contacted a photographer about shooting her commitment ceremony with her partner. This was in New Mexico, a state with a religious freedom law at the time of the dispute. The company, Elane Photography, refused the job because of the co-owner's religious beliefs. Willock sued Elane Photography for discrimination, and the company defended itself by citing the law. The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity. What would happen if that case happened today in Indiana, with the new, expanded religious freedom law ?. For sure, the case would have proceeded to trial, said Tim Holbrook, a law professor at Emory University. The photography studio would have had the chance to make its argument in court that it denied the service because of religious reasons. Would the outcome have been the same ? Would an Indiana jury side with the company that refused service to a couple because of their sexual orientation ?. In a letter expressing concern about the Indiana law, a group of 30 legal scholars argued that what Indiana has done is expanded the scope of the law to the point that religious considerations might trump discrimination concerns. ``In our expert opinion, the clear evidence.. unmistakably demonstrates that the broad language of the proposed state RFRA will more likely create confusion, conflict, and a wave of litigation that will threaten the clarity of religious liberty rights in Indiana while undermining the state's ability to enforce other compelling interests,'' the letter, whose signatories included many Indiana law professors, stated. These concerns are based on speculation of what might happen, said Josh Blackman, a constitutional law professor at South Texas College of Law. Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said. ``But, just because you raise the defense does not mean it will be successful.''. Those who try to defend their discriminatory actions in court tend to lose, Blackman said. In his opinion, if Elane Photography had been able to use the law as a defense in New Mexico, it still likely would have lost the case. What's clear is that Indiana's law increases the potential pool of people who can defend themselves claiming religious freedom. The success of such arguments is to be seen. In the meantime, some are already hatching plans on how to test the law, including Bill Levin, founder of The First Church Of Cannabis, who argued on CNN that the law should protect his right to smoke pot. Much is being made of the fact that the first religious freedom law was signed by President Bill Clinton more than 20 years ago. There was bipartisan support in 1993, so why the commotion over a similar law in 2015, some ask ?. Context, timing and intent have changed the way these laws are viewed. The federal law was written by two Democrats, Schumer and the late Sen. Edward Kennedy. Today, it is being championed by Republicans. The law came into being after two Native Americans in Oregon were fired from their jobs at a rehab clinic because they had consumed peyote, the hallucinogenic cactus. They were denied unemployment benefits, and they sued the state, claiming that the peyote was part of their religious customs. They lost the case. There was outrage over the decision, and the law was created as a remedy. As envisioned by its authors, it would protect the freedoms of religious minorities. Over the years, the law helped a number of people -- a Muslim prisoner won the right to grow a short beard, a Santeria priest was allowed to sacrifice a goat on special religious occasions, and a Native American boy received an exception to his school's policy banning long hair on boys. The law was on the books for years, with little attention paid to it. But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps. Many states are using the laws to carve out exceptions to allow Christians to deny services to same-sex couples. Holbrook said. ``The timing is beyond a coincidence,'' he said. ``We are having an interest in RFRA at the time same-sex marriage is coming forward.''. Though not enshrined in the law, critics accuse the states pursuing the laws of using them to justify discrimination by the majority religion. Blackman said the history of the state religious freedom laws shows that they have not turned into conduits for discrimination. The expanded laws might mean more people will defend themselves using it, but most will likely lose, he said. ``The moral outrage over this reflects how uninformed people are on the history of the RFRA,'' he said. So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope : In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters. Not so fast. According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform. Four U.S. circuit courts of appeals have ruled that the federal law can be used as a defense in cases involving private parties. Two other appeals courts have ruled that this is not allowed. And then, there is the Hobby Lobby case. Hobby Lobby, citing the federal religious freedom law, argued that it should not have to provide contraception coverage through insurance to its employees via Obamacare because it was against the owners' beliefs. And, Hobby Lobby won the case before the Supreme Court. The ruling, in effect, expanded the reach of the federal law to include a business. The Hobby Lobby decision, plus the appeals courts rulings, may have opened the door for states like Indiana to be explicit about its expansion of the law. One way to look at it, Blackman said, is that Indiana simply clarified and codified something that is hazy in the federal courts. The outrage over the Indiana law is that it can be used to deny services to the LGBT community on the ground of religious beliefs. Some may rightfully ask, ``Where was the outrage before the religious freedom law ?''. Indiana does not have an nondiscrimination law that protects people based on sexual orientation or gender identity. In that sense, the religious freedom law is not necessary for those who want to discriminate against gays and lesbians. Even before the controversial Indiana law was passed, if a restaurant denied service to a gay couple, the couple might be able to sue, but not for discrimination. For that matter, there is also no federal law that protects the LGBT community. According to the Human Rights Campaign, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are sometimes fired, denied a promotion or harassed in the workplace. And their recourse is limited. With the proliferation of religious freedom state laws, nondiscrimination laws become even more important. Another hypothetical outcome of the New Mexico case involving the lesbian couple and the photography studio. If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial. But New Mexico has a nondiscrimination law that protects the LGBT community, it and it would have provided a strong counter-argument to the religious freedom claim. In Indiana, that protection would be lacking. ( It gets more complicated when some local governments, like the city of Indianapolis, do have nondiscrimination ordinances ). For this reason, Holbrook suggests that a ``fix'' for the Indiana law would be the passage of a nondiscrimination law. Or, at the very least, an exception written into the religious freedom bill that protects from such discrimination.
( CNN ) A Florida judge denied a motion by two women to join a lawsuit against Prince Andrew and a prominent U.S. lawyer that alleged underage sex crimes. Lawyer Alan Dershowitz was accused of having sex with minors with help from billionaire Jeffrey Epstein. Buckingham Palace denied the allegations, which surfaced in a court filing in January. So did Dershowitz. In his decision, U.S. District Court Judge Kenneth Marra denied a motion by the alleged victims -- ``Jane Doe 3 and Jane Doe 4'' -- to join a lawsuit accusing the federal government of violating their rights by negotiating a nonprosecution agreement with Epstein without consulting them. Marra wrote in the decision that the ``lurid details'' of alleged abuse were unnecessary to determining whether the victims could join the lawsuit. ``The factual details regarding with whom and where the Jane Does engaged in sexual activities are immaterial and impertinent to this central claim.. especially considering that these details involve non-parties who are not related to the respondent Government. These unnecessary details shall be stricken.''. Speaking of the allegations against him, Dershowitz said Tuesday : ``I hope that people will now understand that they were completely false and made up, and, nobody should believe them.''. Buckingham Palace, which in January emphatically denied any form of sexual contact between the Duke of York and a victim it identified as Virginia Roberts, said Prince Andrew was informed of the latest developments. ``He is spending this week privately, before resuming his schedule of public engagements next week. Further details will be announced in due course,'' the palace said in a statement. Roberts' attorneys were not immediately available for comment. The federal court filing alleged that ``Doe 3'' was forced to have sex with several men when she was a teenager. Virginia Roberts made the allegations in a civil motion filed earlier this year in U.S. District Court in southern Florida, joined by another unnamed woman. While Roberts was not identified by name in the filing, her name was widely reported in the British news media, and Buckingham Palace included it in a statement. Along with Britain's Prince Andrew and others, Dershowitz was named in the federal court filing as one of the prominent people who had sexual contact with teenage girls through Epstein. Epstein, an investment banker, pleaded guilty some years ago in Florida to a state charge of prostitution solicitation, but there were no federal charges after he and authorities signed a non-prosecution agreement. But some of Epstein's alleged victims aren't on board with the deal, thinking he should face stiffer charges and penalties. Four of them took federal prosecutors to court, suing them to reopen the case because they believed their rights under the Crime Victims' Rights Act were violated by the agreement. Two of them entered the discussion in January, including the one described as Jane Doe 3. The filing alleged she was a minor when Epstein made her a ``sex slave'' and made ``her available for sex to politically connected and financially powerful people.''. Those big names allegedly included Prince Andrew and Dershowitz. According to the filing, ``Epstein required Jane Doe # 3 to have sexual relations with Dershowitz on numerous occasions while she was a minor, not only in Florida but also on private planes, in New York, New Mexico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.''. The celebrity lawyer and professor subsequently issued an adamant public denial, saying the case ``is all about money'' and ``completely made up.''. He went further in his court filings, including a sworn affidavit in which he said ``lawyers for Jane Doe # 3.. leveled totally false and outrageous charges against me that have been reported around the world and threaten to damage my reputation irrevocably.''. ``Never under any circumstance have I ever had any sexual contact of any kind, which includes massages or any physical contact whatsoever, with Jane Doe # 3,'' he said. Dershowitz said, for instance, that his wife and daughter accompanied him on his sole visit to Epstein's Caribbean island as well as the one time he went to Epstein's New Mexico house -- at which point it was under construction and no girls were visible. ``Let me assert categorically, without reservation and with full awareness of the risks of perjury,'' he stated, ``that I did not ever, under any circumstances, have any sexual contact of any kind with Jane Doe # 3.''. CNN's Greg Botelho, Steve Almasy, Javier de Diego, Josh Levs contributed to this report.
( CNN ) At least 54 people have died and 15 others are missing after a Russian fishing vessel sank off the Kamchatka Peninsula, according to Russia's state-run Tass news agency. More than 60 people were rescued Thursday from the chilly waters in Russia's Far East. The Dalniy Vostok freezer trawler -- a commercial fishing vessel -- was carrying 132 people, the ministry said. Of the people on board, 78 were Russians. The 54 others were foreign nationals from Myanmar, Ukraine, Lithuania and Vanuatu, according to the news agency, with the majority coming from Myanmar. More than 20 fishing vessels are searching for the 15 people still thought to be missing, Tass said. The shipwreck was swift, with the trawler going down in the Sea of Okhotsk within 15 minutes of getting into difficulties, the news agency reported. The most likely cause of the shipwreck was collision with an obstacle which damaged the hull, the official spokesman of Russia's Investigative Committee, Vladimir Markin, is quoted as saying. The trawler is also thought to have keeled over as a result of hauling some 80 tons of fish on to the deck, the chairman of the emergencies commission in the Kamchatka region, Sergey Khabarov, told Tass.
Lausanne, Switzerland ( CNN ) The bad news ? The deadline to agree on what will be the parameters for an endgame pact on Iran's nuclear program has come and gone with no deal. The good news ? The sides are still talking. Whether your glass is half-full or half-empty, it doesn't change the fact that it's not easy to reach resolutions on complex issues involving nuclear physics and international relations. Nor does it change the fact that Tuesday's self-imposed deadline didn't really matter anyway : The date that really counts is June 30, when the parties must figure out a comprehensive deal -- with all the technical details and diplomatic impasses fully worked out -- or else everything falls apart. The whole point of what's happening in Lausanne, Switzerland, is to get everyone on the same page about what kinds of things will be discussed as part of a potential conclusive agreement. For those hoping that will eventually happen, it's good that Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and senior European Union diplomat Helga Schmid held talks early Thursday morning in Lausanne. But it doesn't mean there will be a final deal. ``We have made significant progress over the last few days, but it has been slow going,'' British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond told reporters Wednesday. ``I'm optimistic that we will make further progress.. but it does mean the Iranians being willing to meet us where there are still issues to deal with. ``Fingers crossed, and we'll hope to get there during the course of the day.''. But by Thursday morning, there was still no deal. Zarif told reporters that Iran has shown ``its readiness to engage with dignity, and it's time for our negotiating partners to seize the moment and use this opportunity, which may not be repeated.''. ``I've always said that an agreement and pressure do not go together. They are mutually exclusive,'' the Iranian minister said. ``So our friends need to decide whether they want to be with Iran based on respect or whether they want to continue based on pressure. They have tested the other one. It is high time to test this one.''. U.S. State Department official Marie Harf said on Twitter that talks between Kerry and Zarif ran deep into the early hours of Thursday morning. ``That was truly an all-nighter,'' she tweeted around 6 a.m. local time ( 12 a.m. ET ), saying the negotiations had broken up and would resume again in a few hours. Another U.S. official had said earlier that ``some serious issues remain unresolved.''. ``It is still totally unclear when this might happen, if it happens at all.''. There's one thing that most everyone does agree on : The sides have made progress in recent days. In fact, Zarif called it ``very good'' progress that led to solutions on most issues, according to IRNA, the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency. As long as ``the conversations continue to be productive,'' White House press secretary Josh Earnest said, U.S. officials will keep on talking. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov -- whose country has been taking part in the talks, along with Germany, France, Britain and the European Union -- went so far as to say ``with a large degree of confidence'' that ``framework agreements have been reached on all the key aspects of this issue at the ministerial level.''. ``We hope that these agreements will be put on paper in the next few hours or a day at the most,'' Lavrov said before leaving the talks along with his counterparts from China and France. ``The agreement stipulates a comprehensive approach to settling this issue, including IAEA verification of the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear program and detailed provisions on lifting the sanctions.''. But it doesn't matter if Russia or Germany is comfortable with the details ; the key is getting the United States and Iran on the same page, something that's hard given the decades of contempt and distrust. According to an IRNA report, Zarif said only that he hopes a framework agreement will be drafted Wednesday. ``I think it's a matter of political will. It's not just about technical details anymore,'' said Fawaz Gerges, a professor of Middle East studies at the London School of Economics. ``You're talking here about an institutionalized relationship of hostility between the United States and Iran.''. Even then, Gerges on Wednesday gave the sides a 60 % to 70 % chance of coming to some sort of preliminary agreement soon. His reasoning : ``I think there is a convergence of interests between Obama's administration and the Iranian leadership, and that's why both camps have a vested interest in signing an agreement, as opposed to walking away.''. For Iran, which insists its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, a deal would mean relief from punishing economic sanctions. For the West, it would offer hope of improved relations with Tehran without the destabilizing threat of an Iranian nuclear bomb in the pipeline. The sides have oftentimes talked past each other for nine years. That's why Iran is facing crippling sanctions in the first place : because many world powers felt they could not trust Tehran, given its dealings with nuclear inspectors and in talks. The tone changed with the 2013 election of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, a moderate who campaigned on a platform of reducing international tensions. And there has been some movement, including in recent days, out of Iran. Still, it's too early to say that everyone will meet in the middle on everything. Mohammad Marandi, a professor of North American studies at Tehran University, told CNN that Iranian officials feel they've already compromised a lot in the talks. ``They feel that they've gone as far as they possibly can and that it's for the Americans right now to make a move,'' he said. 21 questions on Iranian nuclear talks. The main sticking points at the moment are believed to be the pace at which U.N. sanctions on Iran will be lifted, how much nuclear research and development Iran will be able to maintain and whether Iran will ship its stockpile of enriched uranium out of the country for reprocessing into a safer form. Even if those points are resolved to the satisfaction of all sides, any agreement is expected to come under attack on multiple fronts. Obama is likely to face a stern challenge selling any deal to Congress, while hardliners in Iran will probably denounce it for being too harsh. The leader of Israel, a key U.S. ally that considers Iran to be an existential threat, on Tuesday said ``the agreement that is being formed in Lausanne is paving the road to that result.''. And on Wednesday, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu obliquely suggested that the United States could be threatened as well. ``The Middle East is plagued by anti-Western, anti-democratic and anti-American extremism.. Despots lead their people in chants of `Death to America' while building intercontinental ballistic missiles to reach America. In this violent and unstable region, where states are exploding,'' said Netanyahu, referring to some Iranian leaders and reports that Iran could develop intercontinental missiles. Iran's power rises, with or without deal. Obama administration officials say that any agreement would involve heavy monitoring of Iran's nuclear activities. They insist no deal would be better than signing a bad deal. But if no agreement is reached and the talks fall apart, the potential consequences are deeply unsettling. Further sanctions on Iran would most likely follow. Israel argues that could eventually force Tehran back to the negotiating table to settle for a tougher deal. But Obama administration officials say they fear Iran will redouble efforts to advance its nuclear program without any meaningful international inspections. Iranian progress toward a nuclear weapon could spark an arms race in the Middle East and talk of military strikes from the United States or Israel. ``The military option will remain on the table,'' U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter told NBC's ``Today'' show on Tuesday. ``If there is a good agreement to have, obviously it's worth waiting for and completing the negotiations.''. CNN's Elise Labott reported from Lausanne, and Greg Botelho reported and wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Jethro Mullen, Jim Sciutto, Steve Almasy, Nimet Kirac and Catherine E. Shoichet contributed to this report.
Washington ( CNN ) The flight voice recorder aboard Germanwings Flight 9525 reportedly captured blaring cockpit alarms, warning co-pilot Andreas Lubitz to ``pull up'' and that ``terrain'' was ahead. But that was not enough to stop the aircraft from slamming into the French Alps. With reports that Lubitz apparently ignored those warnings, there are new calls from aviation experts to develop and deploy enhanced crash avoidance software that could take control of an aircraft away from a pilot and steer the plane to a safe altitude. The technology would work in a fashion similar to crash avoidance technology already used in automobiles. If a pilot is incapacitated or ignores audible warnings, the plane's flight guidance software could take over and plot a course to a safe altitude. In cars, these avoidance systems sometimes deploy brakes or slow a car down to a safer speed, and help maintain safe distances from other vehicles. The idea is not new. In fact, more than 10 years ago, following 9/11, Airbus, the manufacturer of the doomed aircraft, was working to d evelop aircraft crash avoidance software with tech giant Honeywell -- in part to prevent jetliners from being flown into large buildings or mountains. But the project was ultimately scrapped. A spokesperson for Honeywell says the company has no plans to revive the project unless federal regulators demand it be put into cockpits or airlines ask for it. So far that has not happened. CNN also asked Airbus about the project, but the company had no comment. Former Department of Transportation Inspector General Mary Schiavo says pilots, regulators and the traveling public have, so far, not bought into claims that computers can do it better. ``For any situation where you are relieving the pilot's control of their plane, there has been pushback not only from the pilots, but from airlines. There are some sectors that believe that ultimately the pilot must maintain overall control of the plane and that that is your best bet for a safe flight.''. However, she adds, in the case of the Germanwings crash, ``this technology, I believe, would have saved the flight. Not only would it have saved this flight and the Germanwings passengers, it would also save lives in situations where it is not a suicidal, homicidal pilot. It has implications literally for safer flight across the industry.''. Pilots' groups point to numerous instances where a pilot's training and perhaps unconventional thinking actually saved lives. For example, in 2009 Capt. C.B. Sullenberger crash-landed U.S. Airways flight 1549 into the Hudson River in New York, after a flock of geese was sucked into both of its engines and the A320 lost all thrust. The formal National Transportation Safety Board report on the crash said the main thing that contributed to the survivability of the accident was ``the decision-making of the flight crewmembers and their crew resource management during the accident sequence.'' In other words, when Sullenberger decided to ditch the plane in the Hudson, he saved the 150 passengers and five crew members on board. Pilots say if a computer had taken over after it sensed the plane was headed for water, the outcome could have been very different. Commercial airline pilot John Barton says there are other considerations to take into account as well. ``In systems like this.. the control can not be taken back from the aircraft. Or, indiscriminately the aircraft could be taken over on just a normal flight and they ( cockpit crew ) wouldn't be able to get control back. I think it is going to take a long time to operationally test this kind of technology before it is foolproof.''. He also worries that the autopilot software could be vulnerable to hackers. ``More and more people will come to know the technology. They will work on the technology and therefore there will be bad people that will be able to exploit that technology. That's not a good thing.''. But in an incident like the Germanwings tragedy, where a pilot is being blamed for the crash, Schiavo says there must be additional safeguards and that this technology would be a start. ``Most of the major commercial jetliner crashes in the last two or three years could have been saved with an override.''. Barton says there are already plenty of safeguards in place in the United States. For example, he says, the Federal Aviation Administration rule that two people must always be in the cockpit during a flight might also have saved the Germanwings flight. That is a practice that several overseas carriers -- including Germanwings and its parent company, Lufthansa -- have now adopted. ``The solution to the problem simply is for the rest of the world globally to adhere to the standards that the United States has used forever, and that is sound hiring practices, safety and training and security practices.'' Barton says.
( CNN ) Indiana's controversial religious freedom law has been in hot water lately. After a firestorm of backlash and protests, Gov. Mike Pence said on Tuesday that the state will ``fix'' the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, or RFRA, so it will not discriminate against gays and lesbians. Pence is making the right call. Promoting the false dichotomy between protecting religion versus protecting equality serves no one. Not all people who dislike the law hate religion, and not all people who like the law want to discriminate against the LGBT community. If people of good will come together, liberty and equality can both be saved. The unbelievably easy way to fix Indiana's RFRA is to add one small amendment, one easy line codifying that discrimination against the LGBT community is harmful, and that there is a compelling governmental interest in eliminating that harm. In general, it is a good thing for society to shape its laws in ways that allow people to live their lives consistent with their sincerely held religious obligations. As Americans, we value and always have valued the freedom and expression of religion. Sometimes, a law seems to impose only modest burdens on the people it affects, but in practice it actually severely burdens the religious practices of a few. In those situations, if there is no compelling governmental interest in enforcing that law in that particularly burdensome way -- and if no one else is harmed -- then religion should be granted an exemption. Shifting the burden to the government to prove that it really does need to apply this law in this particular way will not allow every person to become a law unto themselves ; it simply sends the message that religion is important, and unless there are specific and compelling reasons why, people should be allowed to practice as they need. These are the reasons why the federal RFRA was passed in 1993, and why it had bipartisan support. These are wholesome American values that everyone can get behind. The problem is that we no longer live in 1993, 10 years before Lawrence v. Texas, and 20 before U.S. v. Windsor. In 1993, our sensibilities were different ; there was not yet a national conversation about the need to protect the rights and dignity of members of the LGBT community. Timing matters because society changes, and now that our horizons have been broadened we can not just keep insisting that the law was never intended to discriminate and worked just fine 22 years ago, before we realized its negative potential. Even if not a single lawmaker consciously intends the bill to be used as a shield for discrimination, we still have to take seriously Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes' claim about unintended consequences. To put it simply, you have to be concerned with what the law allows a person to get away with. The concern is real. Because Indiana does not have a law prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, the bill as drafted might allow people who were so inclined to discriminate, and simply assert that they could do so based on a religious belief. Public perceptions matter. Whether or not lawmakers think so, it certainly seems relevant to the general public that this bill was passed with important national decisions about marriage equality on the horizon and right after the ruling in Baskin v. Bogans that Indiana's same-sex marriage ban was unconstitutional. Writing for the Seventh Circuit panel in 2014, Judge Richard Posner's rationale in the case of Baskin v. Bogan provides the obvious answer for how to fix the RFRA deficiency without changing what it is that it defends. Courts have long held that a religious exemption can not be granted if it allows you to shift the harm to a third party, and -- as Posner explained so simply -- discrimination is harmful. RFRAs are not inherently evil. The message can be nondiscriminatory and religion can be protected. The principles of RFRA can remain unchanged ; it is just the definition of harmful that evolves. A few simple words have the potential to completely change the conversation, send an important message about the value of equality, and make Indiana into a shining beacon of cooperation : the real ``crossroads of America.'' Doing so would go a long way toward restoring its reputation as a place of great opportunity for all to live and worship and work.
