marseille, france ( cnn ) the french prosecutor leading an investigation into the crash of germanwings flight 9525 insisted wednesday that he was not aware of any video footage from on board the plane. marseille prosecutor brice robin told cnn that ``so far no videos were used in the crash investigation. all 150 on board were killed.
( cnn ) the palestinian authority officially became the 123rd member of the international criminal court on wednesday, a step that gives the court jurisdiction over alleged crimes in palestinian territories. the formal accession was marked with a ceremony at the hague, in the netherlands, where the court is based. rights group human rights watch welcomed the development.
( cnn ) governments around the world are using the threat of terrorism -- real or perceived -- to advance executions, amnesty international alleges in its annual report on the death penalty. ``the dark trend of governments using the death penalty in a futile attempt to tackle real or imaginary threats to state security and public safety was stark last year,'' said salil shetty, amnesty's secretary general in a release. at least 607 people were executed around the world in 2014, compared to 778 in 2013.
( cnn ) on may 28, 2014, some 7,000 people gathered in a stadium in china's northwestern xinjiang region. in the patently unfair, open air trial that followed, 55 people were found guilty of a range of offenses linked to violent attacks in the region and jailed. three were sentenced to death.
( cnn ) seventy years ago, anne frank died of typhus in a nazi concentration camp at the age of 15. just two weeks after her supposed death on march 31, 1945, the bergen-belsen concentration camp where she had been imprisoned was liberated -- timing that showed how close the jewish diarist had been to surviving the holocaust. but new research released by the anne frank house shows that anne and her older sister, margot frank, died at least a month earlier than previously thought.
( cnn ) a duke student has admitted to hanging a noose made of rope from a tree near a student union, university officials said thursday. the prestigious private school didn't identify the student, citing federal privacy laws. in a news release, it said the student was no longer on campus and will face student conduct review.
( cnn ) the rev. robert h. schuller, california televangelist and founder of the television ministry ``hour of power,'' died thursday, according to his family. he was 88 years old. schuller, also the founder of crystal cathedral megachurch, had been diagnosed with esophageal cancer in august 2013, a release from ``hour of power'' said.
a stray pooch in washington state has used up at least three of her own after being hit by a car, apparently whacked on the head with a hammer in a misguided mercy killing and then buried in a field -- only to survive. that's according to washington state university, where the dog -- a friendly white-and-black bully breed mix now named theia -- has been receiving care at the veterinary teaching hospital. four days after her apparent death, the dog managed to stagger to a nearby farm, dirt-covered and emaciated, where she was found by a worker who took her to a vet for help.
he is, of course, the iranian foreign minister. he has been u.s. secretary of state john kerry's opposite number in securing a breakthrough in nuclear discussions that could lead to an end to sanctions against iran -- if the details can be worked out in the coming weeks. and he received a hero's welcome as he arrived in iran on a sunny friday morning.
contestants told to ``come on down !'' on the april 1 edition of ``the price is right'' encountered not host drew carey but another familiar face in charge of the proceedings. instead, there was bob barker, who hosted the tv game show for 35 years before stepping down in 2007.
she's a high school freshman with down syndrome. trey -- a star on eastern high school's basketball team in louisville, kentucky, who's headed to play college ball next year at ball state -- was originally going to take his girlfriend to eastern's prom. ``that's the kind of person trey is,'' she said.
( cnn ) michele bachmann is comparing president obama to the co-pilot of the doomed germanwings flight. ``with his iran deal, barack obama is for the 300 million souls of the united states what andreas lubitz was for the 150 souls on the german wings flight - a deranged pilot flying his entire nation into the rocks,'' the minnesota republican and former representative wrote in a facebook comment posted march 31. he died in the crash along with 149 other crew and passengers.
here's why we should heed the ongoing drought in the most populous state, a slowly expanding natural disaster now in its fourth year that this week prompted gov. jerry brown to announce a mandatory 25 % cutback in water consumption in all cities. in 2014, one expert predicted consumers would pay more for some groceries because of the california drought. • berries rose in price by about 80 cents per clamshell to $ 3.88.
everyone from apple ceo tim cook to the head of the ncaa slammed religious freedom laws being considered in several states this week, warning that they would open the door to discrimination against gay and lesbian customers. and some prominent republicans are urging the party to take notice. it has been a gradual transformation for walmart.
( cnn ) five americans who were monitored for three weeks at an omaha, nebraska, hospital after being exposed to ebola in west africa have been released, a nebraska medicine spokesman said in an email wednesday. they were exposed to ebola in sierra leone in march, but none developed the deadly virus. they are clinicians for partners in health, a boston-based aid group.
( cnn ) andrew getty, one of the heirs to billions of oil money, appears to have died of natural causes, a los angeles police department spokesman said. the coroner's preliminary assessment is there was no foul play involved in the death of getty, grandson of oil tycoon j. paul getty, said detective meghan aguilar. ktla reported that getty was found on his side near a bathroom in his home.
( cnn ) a year ago bloomberg published a story with the following headline : mike pence, a koch favorite, mulls 2016 run for president. the story ticked off items on pence's conservative things-to-do list while also noting his close ties to the deep-pocketed koch brothers, as well as other right-wing lobbying groups. last august the indiana governor was in dallas for an americans for prosperity event ; the group is backed by the conservative koch brothers, and supported gov. pence's tax-slashing budget.
( cnn ) filipinos are being warned to be on guard for flash floods and landslides as tropical storm maysak approached the asian island nation saturday. just a few days ago, maysak gained super typhoon status thanks to its sustained 150 mph winds. it has since lost a lot of steam as it has spun west in the pacific ocean.
norfolk, virginia ( cnn ) the second mate of the houston express probably couldn't believe what he was seeing. he'd been drifting on the 35-foot pearson sailboat for more than two months since leaving conway, south carolina, to fish in the ocean. '' the boat capsized two more times before he was rescued, according to jordan.
( cnn ) paul walker is hardly the first actor to die during a production. but walker's death in november 2013 at the age of 40 after a car crash was especially eerie given his rise to fame in the ``fast and furious'' film franchise. walker secretly paid for the engagement ring upham shopped for with his bride.
( cnn ) the united states and its negotiating partners reached a very strong framework agreement with iran in lausanne, switzerland, on thursday that limits iran's nuclear program in such a way as to effectively block it from building a nuclear weapon. this of course is not the case. this provision will be permanent.
just ask vince, whitney, roseanne, jimi and michael. to say neil butchered the song before the las vegas outlaws arena football league game would be unkind to those in the profession. the late whitney houston set the modern standard for the national anthem at super bowl xxv.
london ( cnn ) a 19-year-old man was charged wednesday with terror offenses after he was arrested as he returned to britain from turkey, london's metropolitan police said. yahya rashid, a uk national from northwest london, was detained at luton airport on tuesday after he arrived on a flight from istanbul, police said. rashid is due to appear in westminster magistrates' court on wednesday, police said.
( cnn ) sky watchers in western north america are in for a treat : a nearly five-minute total lunar eclipse this morning. while people west of the mississippi river will have the best view, at least a partial eclipse will be visible across the nation. but sunrise will interrupt the show on the east coast.
memories pizza in the indiana town of walkerton is finding out. the family-run restaurant finds itself at the center of the debate over the state's religious freedom restoration act after its owners said they'd refuse to cater a same-sex couple's wedding. they called for boycotts.
( cnn ) it's the kind of thing you see in movies, like robert redford's role in ``all is lost'' or ang lee's ``life of pi. louis jordan says that he set off on his 35-foot sailboat from south carolina in late january. rescued man says he is `utterly thankful' not only did his boat capsize, but its mast broke, jordan said.
( cnn ) since iran's islamic revolution in 1979, women have been barred from attending most sports events involving men. a plan to allow ``women and families'' to enter sports stadiums will come into effect in the next year, deputy sports minister abdolhamid ahmadi said saturday, according to state-run media. but it isn't clear exactly which games women will be able to attend.
washington ( cnn ) israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu criticized the deal six world powers struck to thwart iran's nuclear ambitions, saying he sees better options than ``this bad deal or war. president barack obama endorsed the deal, saying it was better than the alternatives. '' ``it's a framework.
the tallest and fastest ``giga-coaster'' in the world. in the 1980s and'90s -- before he moved to vegas and started keeping tigers as pets -- former heavyweight boxer mike tyson lived in a southington, ohio, mansion. the fury 325 can be found at carowinds amusement part in charlotte, north carolina.
( cnn ) easter is a cornerstone event in the christian faith, but it's surrounded by interesting quirks. it celebrates the completion of christ's mission of salvation in the crucifixion and resurrection. at the vatican, holy week began with palm sunday last week and culminated in easter sunday mass with multiple celebrations in between to mark the final week of christ's mortal life.
( cnn ) police in the indian city of malegaon, in the western state of maharashtra, are requiring identity cards for an unusual group of residents : cattle. following a recent state-wide ban on the sale and consumption of beef, authorities in the city have asked residents to take a `mugshot' of their cattle and submit it to the police. cows are considered holy and revered by that state's majority hindu population.
( cnn ) the fbi charged a philadelphia woman on thursday with trying to travel overseas to fight for isis. she's one of three women arrested this week on terror charges. two new york women were also taken into custody.
( cnn ) just as mimeograph machines and photocopiers were in their day, online activity -- blogs, youtube channels, even social media platforms like facebook and twitter -- have fully emerged as the alternative to traditional mainstream media. amos yee, the teenage video blogger who was arrested and held pending bail sunday in singapore, drew international attention for his anti-lee kuan yew harangue. his father has reportedly apologized for his son's behavior, but the younger yee could face up to three years in jail.
atlanta ( cnn ) robert lewis burns jr., the original drummer in southern rock band lynyrd skynyrd, died friday night in a car crash, a georgia state patrol spokesman said. burns, 64, died after his car hit a mailbox and a tree in cartersville, spokesman james tallent said. the musician lived in northern georgia.
was she pregnant ? focus on the mystery intensified in december after a fan twitter account posted a direct message from lavigne when she solicited prayers, saying she was ``having some health issues. '' now the canadian singer has revealed to people magazine that she was bedridden for five months after contracting lyme disease.
in the end, two agents were injured in a crash and the suspect was shot before being captured. fbi agents and task force officers were following 36-year-old kevone charleston of austell, georgia, as he pulled into a cvs pharmacy in forsyth county, georgia, early saturday. charleston is suspected of involvement in 32 commercial robberies dating to november 2013, according to fbi officials.
' and later, it says that ``in the collegiate model of sports, the young men and women competing on the field or court are students first, athletes second. '' but the ncaa is taking a very different position in response to a lawsuit filed by former university of north carolina athletes. ``it's nonsense.
the large hadron collider ( lhc ), a particle accelerator and the largest machine in the world, is ready for action following a two-year shutdown. after problems that delayed the restart in march, scientists at the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) completed final tests, enabling the first beams to start circulating sunday inside the lhc's 17 mile ( 27 km ) ring. ``today, cern's heart beats once more to the rhythm of the lhc.
and fighting has killed hundreds of people in less than two weeks. the saudi-led coalition smashed parts of yemen's defense ministry central command in the capital over the weekend, senior yemeni officials said. the electricity has gone out on 16 million yemenis living in houthi-held areas, the yemeni officials said.
( cnn ) the united states has seemingly erupted this week about what it means to live your religion, especially in indiana, where its new religious freedom restoration act faces a firestorm from critics who say it uses faith as a pretext to discriminate against gay people. such state laws have been growing ever since the u.s. religious freedom restoration act became law in 1993, designed to prohibit the federal government from ``substantially burdening'' a person's exercise of religion. the feathers are sacred to native americans.
( cnn ) the terrorist group al-shabaab has claimed an attack on garissa university college in eastern kenya, in which many people have been killed and still more taken hostage. the attack is another step in the ongoing escalation of the terrorist group's activities, and a clear indicator that the security situation in east africa is deteriorating fast. cross-border raids into kenya by the group, however, date back to 2011.
( cnn ) a connecticut teen who has been forced to have chemotherapy to treat hodgkin lymphoma will remain in temporary custody of the state for the time being, according to her attorney, josh michtom. a connecticut juvenile court judge issued a written decision wednesday denying a motion to let the teen, identified in court documents as ``cassandra c.,'' go home. the 17-year-old is in remission after nearly six months of forced chemo treatments.
,'' featuring bruno mars, is the longest-leading billboard hot 100 of the 2010s, ruling the chart for a 13th week. it's also just the 10th single in the hot 100's entire history to spend at least 13 weeks at no. 1. plus, newcomer natalie la rose reaches the top 10 with her debut hit ``somebody,'' featuring jeremih.
( cnn ) ``jake the dog and finn the human. '' so begins the dreamy theme song intro to the strangely addictive cartoon network tv show that's centered around psychedelic characters like the ice king, marceline the vampire queen and, of course, jake and finn. now, mega-fans of the hit show can experience ``adventure time'' in the skies.
the chilly continent recorded the temperature ( 15.5 degrees celsius ) on march 24, possibly the highest ever recorded on antarctica, according to the weather underground. the temperature was recorded at argentina's esperanza base on the northern tip of the antarctica peninsula, according to cnn affiliate wtnh. ).
seoul, south korea ( cnn ) the man accused of stabbing u.s. ambassador mark lippert in seoul last month is now charged with attempted murder, a south korean court official said wednesday. kim ki-jong has also been charged with assaulting a foreign envoy and business obstruction, the seoul central district court official said. south korean president park geun-hye condemned the attack.
( cnn ) president barack obama tied himself to the mast of a nuclear deal with iran even before he became the democratic candidate for president. reaching a good, solid agreement with iran is a worthy, desirable goal. iran will be allowed to keep one-third of its more than 6,000 centrifuges.
the nfl legend called out deion sanders jr. on twitter for saying he only eats ``hood doughnuts. '' ``you're a huxtable with a million $ trust fund. junior is a wide receiver at southern methodist university, an aspiring entrepreneur and occasional rapper.
( cnn ) blue bell ice cream has temporarily shut down one of its manufacturing plants over the discovery of listeria contamination in a serving of ice cream originating from that plant. public health officials warned consumers friday not to eat any blue bell-branded products made at the company's broken arrow, oklahoma, plant. listeria monocytogenes was recently found in a cup of ice cream recovered from the hospital.
one woman was lying on the floor with cuts to her neck and buttocks. a former banker, 29-year-old briton rurik jutting, was charged with two counts of murder. it's alleged 25-year-old sumarti ningsih was killed on october 27, five days before her body was found.
( cnn ) universal's ``furious 7'' continues to build momentum at the friday box office for a weekend debut in the $ 135 million - $ 138 million range, the largest opening in north america since fall 2013. that includes a projected friday take of $ 58 million - $ 60 million. ``furious 7'' is getting the widest release in universal's history.
in a series of tweets, the prisoner formerly known as bradley manning said she will be using a voice phone to dictate her tweets to communications firm fitzgibbon media, which will post them on her behalf. she is not allowed internet access in prison, according to the guardian. manning said she suffers from gender dysphoria.
( cnn ) according to an outside review by columbia journalism school professors,'' ( a ) n institutional failure at rolling stone resulted in a deeply flawed article about a purported gang rape at the university of virginia. '' the columbia team concluded that ``the failure encompassed reporting, editing, editorial supervision and fact-checking. can uva, phi kappa psi or any of the other fraternities on campus sue for defamation ?
( cnn ) the classic video game ``space invaders'' was developed in japan back in the late 1970's -- and now their real-life counterparts are the topic of an earnest political discussion in japan's corridors of power. he entered japan's upper house for a second stint in politics in 2013. he reportedly converted to islam in the 1990s, although he says he practices both islam and buddhism.
( cnn ) the fbi has confirmed that one of its most wanted terrorists, the malaysian bomb maker known as marwan, was killed in an otherwise disastrous raid in the philippines in january. marwan, whose real name is zulkifli bin hir, was believed by the fbi to a member of southeast asian terror group jemaah islamiyah's central command. but the fbi now says tests have confirmed that the dead man was the wanted islamic extremist.
the government of shibuya ward, one of the capital's most famous shopping and trendy entertainment districts, passed ordinance on wednesday paving the way for ``partnership certificates'' for same-sex couples, allowing them some of the rights of married heterosexual couples. same-sex partners who are registered with the district's ward office will be able to hold visitation rights in hospitals and co-sign tenancy agreements. the measure was proposed in february by shibuya's mayor, toshitake kuwahara.
( cnn ) film director david lynch has confirmed he will no longer direct the revival of ``twin peaks'' -- a cult 1990s television show that was set to return in 2016. the offbeat tv series, created by lynch and mark frost, featured a quirky fbi agent who went to the pacific northwest town of twin peaks to investigate the mysterious murder of a high school girl named laura palmer. the groundbreaking series is considered one of the most influential shows in television history.
( cnn ) a university of kentucky basketball player is apologizing for the ``poor choice of words'' he muttered under his breath after the team's stunning loss to wisconsin on saturday. as a deflated panel of wildcats fielded a reporter's question about wisconsin standout frank kaminsky, a hot mic picked up kentucky guard andrew harrison saying of kaminsky, ``f**k that ( n-word ). '' ``he reached out to me.
hong kong ( cnn ) six people were hurt after an explosion at a controversial chemical plant in china's southeastern fujian province sparked a huge fire, provincial authorities told state media. the blast occurred at an oil storage facility monday night after an oil leak, though local media has not reported any toxic chemical spill. five out of six people were injured by broken glass and have been sent to the hospital for treatment, xinhua news agency reported.
( cnn ) the presence of a harmful pesticide at a luxury villa in the u.s. virgin islands may have resulted in the illness of a delaware family, the u.s. environmental protection agency said friday. paramedics were called last week to a rented villa at the sirenusa resort in st. john after the family of four fell ill. the illness was reported to the epa on march 20.
but that is what rand paul, who today declared he's running for president of the united states, is doing. since coming to the u.s. senate, paul has tried to sell himself as a different type of republican. he's tried to brand himself as the gop's minority outreach candidate.
( cnn ) the united states department of justice has named a new defendant in the war on drugs, and the charges are serious indeed. a 15-count indictment filed in federal court in california bristles with accusations of conspiracies, transporting prescription pharmaceuticals dispensed with illegal prescriptions, violations of the controlled substances act, misbranding charges, and money laundering charges. ``possession'' is an elusive concept.
for ``mad men,'' the ``end of an era,'' as its slogan has it, begins sunday. stores have created fashion lines inspired by the show ; there have been ``mad men'' cocktails and ``mad men'' museum exhibits and even ``mad men'' presidential references. ``the sopranos,'' ``mad men'' creator matthew weiner's former employer, divided fans with its famous cut-to-black finale.
( cnn ) comedian chris rock made light of racial disparities in police treatment of whites and blacks with a tongue-in-cheek guide to not being beaten by the police. he encapsulated the frustration and grief caused by a new york grand jury's decision not to indict a white police officer in the death of a black man with a simple tweet : ``this one was on film. he posted similar photos in february.
( cnn ) boston native mark wahlberg will star in a film about the boston marathon bombing and the manhunt that followed, deadline reported wednesday. wahlberg's film, to be titled ``patriots' day,'' is being produced by cbs films, which linked to the deadline article from its website. '' wahlberg is also a producer of the film.
on thursday's edition of the popular game show, model manuela arbelaez accidentally revealed the correct answer to a guessing game for a new hyundai sonata. ``congratulations !'' he exulted.
using the hashtag # 147notjustanumber -- a reference to the number of people, mostly students, killed at garissa university college on thursday -- kenyans tweeted pictures of the victims in happier times. kenyan authorities have not released a list of the victims. he had reportedly taken a loan to educate him at the university, where he was killed by al-shabaab terrorists.
marseille, france ( cnn ) investigators have collected all the main evidence from the site where germanwings flight 9525 crashed, a french national police official told cnn on saturday. investigators are not expected to return to the crash site, said capt. yves naffrechoux of the high mountain gendarmerie. the cockpit voice recorder was found days after the crash.
( cnn ) authorities identified and charged a man monday in connection with the discovery of human remains in a duffel bag in cambridge, massachusetts, over the weekend. carlos colina, 32, was arraigned on charges of assault and battery causing serious bodily injury and improper disposal of a body, the middlesex district attorney's office said in a statement. ``this was a gruesome discovery,'' said district attorney marian ryan.
american jennifer stewart says she was devastated to learn that etihad airways lost her most important baggage following a recent trip from abu dhabi to new york city : her 2-year-old pet cat, felix. stewart said that she and her husband, joseph naaman, booked felix on their etihad airways flight from the united arab emirates to new york's john f. kennedy international airport on april 1. '' the airline shipped more than 200 pets last year.
``arrested development'' executive producer brian grazer said the show will return for a fifth season of 17 episodes. the hollywood mogul was interviewed on bill simmons' podcast recently, and let it drop that fans can expect more of the quirky comedy. the fourth season was streamed exclusively on netflix in 2013, after fox canceled the show several years before.
( cnn ) easter is unique on the christian calendar, a major point in the cycle of the religious year, and one that has always been able to resist the commercialization and culture warring that surrounds christmas. that's in part because easter is genuinely about how religious impulses, and patterns, can operate in ways that affect our lives. he was never trying to erase judaism and found a new religion.
it was a mantra he invoked repeatedly : the poor were blessed, and it was easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it was for the well-to-do to enter paradise. meanwhile, jesus told his twelve apostles to leave their day jobs and follow him on an itinerant mission with few prospects of success and no visible means of support. in the new testament, money gets 37 mentions, while ``gold'' gets 38 citations, ``silver'' merits 20, and ``copper'' four.
massachusetts is hosting two of the highest-profile court trials in recent memory -- those of former new england patriot aaron hernandez and boston bombing suspect dzhokhar tsarnaev. both lengthy trials are coming to a close. in louisville, kentucky, sen. rand paul made the not-so-surprising announcement that he will run for president, while in chicago, voters will head to the polls in a very surprising runoff between mayor rahm emanuel and challenger jesus ``chuy'' garcia.
cedar falls, iowa ( cnn ) as aides politely tried to rush ted cruz from an event in cedar falls to one in cedar rapids, iowa, on thursday, the presidential candidate continued shaking hands with anyone who wanted to meet him. ``senator,'' he said, ``can i pray with you real quick ? evangelicals make up a large segment of iowa's republican voter bloc.
( cnn ) just kill it already. that was the sentiment of many ``vampire diaries'' fans on tuesday after star nina dobrev announced she will be leaving the cw show at the end of this season. fans called the couple ``delena.
beijing ( cnn ) china's state prosecutors on friday formally charged the country's former security czar with accepting bribes, making him the highest-ranking chinese communist party official ever to face corruption charges. zhou yongkang, 72, was also charged with abuse of power and leaking state secrets, the supreme people's procuratorate, the highest prosecution authority in china, said. he retired in 2012.
federal education minister smriti irani was visiting a fabindia outlet in the tourist resort state of goa on friday when she discovered a surveillance camera pointed at the changing room, police said. four employees of the store have been arrested, but its manager -- herself a woman -- was still at large saturday, said goa police superintendent kartik kashyap. the arrested staff have been charged with voyeurism and breach of privacy, according to the police.
( cnn ) nine british citizens were arrested in turkey on wednesday, suspected of trying to cross illegally into syria, the turkish military said on its website. the group included four children -- the oldest being 10 or 11, with the youngest born in 2013, a turkish official told cnn on condition of anonymity. the nine were arrested at the turkey-syria border, the turkish military said.
( cnn ) kayahan, one of turkey's best-loved singers and songwriters, died of cancer friday at the age of 66. he had performed most recently in istanbul on valentine's day. he died friday in a hospital in istanbul, five days after his 66th birthday.
( cnn ) a nuclear submarine being repaired at a russian shipyard has caught on fire, according to a law enforcement source speaking to russia's state-run news agency itar-tass. ``the submarine is in a dry dock,'' tass reports, citing the source, and there is no ammunition on board. ``the rubber insulation between the submarine's light and pressure hull is on fire,'' tass reported.
mexican state oil company pemex said 45 workers were injured in the blaze, which began early wednesday morning. two of them are in serious condition, the company said. at least 10 boats worked to battle the blaze for hours.
( cnn ) a french-language global television network regained control of one of its 11 channels thursday after a cyberattack a day earlier crippled its broadcasts and social media accounts. television network tv5monde was gradually regaining control of its channels and social media outlets after suffering what the network's director called an ``extremely powerful cyberattack. but there was no immediate claim of responsibility by isis or any other group.
kabul, afghanistan ( cnn ) three people were killed and five others were wounded thursday afternoon when a group of armed assailants stormed into the attorney general's office in balkh province, northern afghanistan, according to a press release from the provincial governor's office. although most staff members and civilians have been rescued, an exchange of fire between afghan security forces and the assailants is ongoing, the statement says. two police officers and a security guard of the provincial attorney general's office were among the dead.
after deliberating for 11 1/2 hours, jurors found dzhokhar tsarnaev guilty on wednesday of all 30 counts he faced in the boston marathon bombing trial. seventeen of the 30 counts were capital charges, meaning he is eligible for the death penalty. tsarnaev was 19 at the time of the bombing.
( cnn ) a mammoth fire broke out friday morning in a kentucky industrial park, sending plumes of thick smoke over the area as authorities worked to contain the damage. the blaze began shortly before 7 a.m. at the general electric appliance park in louisville, according to mike weimer from the city's emergency management agency. he said that there were no reports of anyone injured or trapped.
nearly three months after a u.s. official said up to 25,000 iraqis troops were expected to return to the key northern iraqi city in april or may, a senior official in president barack obama's administration said thursday that washington is ``not putting a timeframe on'' a possible invasion. it ``might be some time from now. still, mosul isn't tikrit.
( cnn ) the california public utilities commission on thursday said it is ordering pacific gas & electric co. to pay a record $ 1.6 billion penalty for unsafe operation of its gas transmission system, including the pipeline rupture that killed eight people in san bruno in september 2010. most of the penalty amounts to forced spending on improving pipeline safety. of the $ 1.6 billion, $ 850 million will go to ``gas transmission pipeline safety infrastructure improvements,'' the commission said.
( cnn ) in her 40 years living in rochelle, illinois, cathy olson had never seen a tornado that big. farther north, in the rural illinois hamlet of fairdale, one person died as a twister shredded homes and ripped trees bare of leaves and most limbs. it was the only death reported so far in two days of tornado touchdowns.
( cnn ) eyewitness video showing white north charleston police officer michael slager shooting to death an unarmed black man has exposed discrepancies in the reports of the first officers on the scene. slager has been fired and charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old walter scott. a bystander's cell phone video, which began after an alleged struggle on the ground between slager and scott, shows the five-year police veteran shooting at scott eight times as scott runs away.
yashasvi yadav, senior superintendent of police in lucknow, northern india, told cnn the city's force has bought four drones and is in the process of purchasing one more. ``the drones have been tested in controlled conditions,'' he said. ``they have been very successful and will be used by the lucknow police whenever there are violent protests or mob attacks.
a female employee accused xavier morales, a supervisor within the agency, of assault after he made sexual advances at her, according to the washington post. ``the woman told police and agency investigators that morales, her boss, told her during the party at capitol city brewing company that he was in love with her and would like to have sex with her,'' and later tried to kiss her in the office, according to a report from the washington post. clancy called the allegations ``very disturbing.
Summary not found
( cnn ) you may know mindy kaling from fox's cult hit comedy ``the mindy project,'' in which she plays mindy lahiri, a perky, quirky ob/gyn juggling her career and love life in new york. ). the show was a breakthrough for on-screen representation -- the first network sitcom created by and starring a woman of color -- and it looks likely to be renewed for the coming 2015-16 season.
' there is no real way to categorize mclean's ``american pie'' for its hybrid of modern poetry and folk ballad, beer-hall chant and high-art rock. on tuesday, christie's sold the 16-page handwritten manuscript of the song's lyrics for $ 1.2 million to an unnamed buyer. '' mclean recalled.
( cnn ) anthony ray hinton is thankful to be free after nearly 30 years on alabama's death row for murders he says he didn't commit. and incredulous that it took so long. hinton, 58, looked up, took in the sunshine and thanked god and his lawyers friday morning outside the county jail in birmingham, minutes after taking his first steps as a free man since 1985.
( cnn ) pardon us, ``lost'' fans, but april 8 wasn't only your day. '' twitter didn't, paying homage to the 1995 film ``empire records'' and the character of rex manning, played by the very dreamy maxwell caulfield. '' the sketch jack does of his beloved is dated april 14, 1912.
she was a married 34-year-old teacher and mother of four in seattle in 1996 when she began an affair with fualaau, her 13-year-old student. letourneau gave birth to her young lover's child and went on to serve more than seven years in prison on charges related to their sexual relationship. the pair wed soon after she was released from prison in 2005 and are now the parents of two teen girls.
twisted sister says that its 2016 tour will be its last, according to a press release. next year marks the band's 40th anniversary, and to celebrate, the tour is being titled ``forty and f*ck it. snider also noted that the band will play with a new drummer, mike portnoy of adrenaline mob.
( the hollywood reporter ) ``grace of monaco,'' starring nicole kidman as star-turned-princess grace kelly, is heading straight to lifetime. the critically-panned film, which opened last year's cannes film festival, will premiere on lifetime on memorial day, may 25. thr : grace of monaco' cannes review.
' the lyrics to the famed don mclean song sold for $ 1.2 million tuesday morning at an auction held by christie's. ``don mclean's manuscript of `american pie' achieved the 3rd highest auction price for an american literary manuscript, a fitting tribute to one the foremost singer-songwriters of his generation,'' christie's tom lecky said in a statement. it's time.
the photographer, daniel ramos, had filed the civil suit against west after the hip-hop star attacked him and tried to wrestle his camera from him in july 2013 at los angeles international airport. west pleaded no contest last year to a misdemeanor count of battery over the scuffle. ``kanye !
( cnn ) buzz has surrounded hbo's new documentary ``going clear : scientology and the prison of belief,'' but scientologist john travolta is not a fan. '' travolta asked. ``honestly.
( cnn ) blues legend b.b. king was hospitalized for dehydration, though the ailment didn't keep him out for long. king's dehydration was caused by his type ii diabetes, but he ``is much better,'' his daughter, claudette king, told the los angeles times. ``he was struggling before, and he is a trouper,'' moore said.
it had been almost two years since dzhokhar tsarnaev and his brother planted bombs at the boston marathon, setting off deadly explosions that wounded her and hundreds of others. in court last month, she testified that one of the blasts on that day in 2013 left her lying in the street, staring at her own bones. now, jurors have found him guilty on all 30 counts he faced for the deadly bombings and their aftermath.
( cnn ) a popular chinese television host known for impromptu satire is now the subject of controversy after being caught on camera cursing the late chairman mao zedong. bi fujian, who works for state-run china central television, was filmed at a dinner party singing a revolutionary song that eulogizes the communist party's early years when he started going off script. ``the communist party, chairman mao.
spotters reported a tornado about 6 miles northwest of goddard, which is less than 15 miles west of wichita. ``nighttime tornadoes are the most deadly, are the most dangerous. three of the sightings were near aetna, 125 miles southwest of wichita.
luckily, katie -- a giraffe at the dallas zoo -- is a champ. in an hour-long labor captured by 10 cameras and streamed live by animal planet, katie gave birth to a not-so-little baby ( about 6 feet tall ) early friday evening. there was no immediate word on the newborn's gender or condition.
the fourth season of ``game of thrones'' saw massive battles, major deaths ( tywin ! it's the most high-profile premiere yet, airing simultaneously in 170 countries for the first time. '' tyrion's path should cross with daenerys' this season, according to the trailers.
( cnn ) the vii summit of the americas was supposed to be all about the symbolic handshake between the united states and cuba. but insert venezuela into the mix and panama city, panama, quickly turns into a ``triangle of tension. '' heads of state from 35 countries in the western hemisphere have met every three years to discuss economic, social or political issues since the creation of the summit in 1994.
( cnn ) the outlines of a nuclear deal with iran are in place. bleeding money, and faced with falling oil prices, supreme leader ayatollah khamenei gave his government rare permission to bargain with the ``great satan'' -- the united states. but just as u.s. and european sanctions were forcing iran to the nuclear crossroads, president obama has given tehran an easy exit.
waterloo, iowa ( cnn ) martin o'malley and jim webb share little in common. both democrats are toying with a presidential run, both are facing long odds in that endeavor, and both shared a stage at the polk county democrats awards dinner in des moines, iowa, on friday night. ``welcome to iowa,'' said another man.
charleston, south carolina ( cnn ) police officers saturday accompanied the hearse carrying the body of walter scott to his south carolina funeral service, where hundreds of mourners celebrated his life and death as a catalyst for change in america. a pair of officers on motorcycles were part of the large procession delivering the father of four -- who was fatally shot in the back by a police officer -- to a service open to the public. ``walter's death will not be in vain.
washington ( cnn ) washington was rocked late thursday by shootings -- one at the gates of the u.s. census bureau's headquarters and another in a popular area packed with restaurant patrons. the shootings were connected, authorities said. they began with what authorities believe was a domestic kidnapping incident, according to d.c. police chief cathy lanier.
washington ( cnn ) an iranian military observation aircraft flew within 50 yards of an armed u.s. navy helicopter over the persian gulf this month, sparking concern that top iranian commanders might not be in full control of local forces, cnn has learned. the incident, which has not been publicly disclosed, troubled u.s. military officials because the unsafe maneuver could have triggered a serious incident. the incident took place as the u.s. and other world powers meet with iran in switzerland to negotiate a deal limiting tehran's nuclear program.
new york ( cnn ) when liana barrientos was 23 years old, she got married in westchester county, new york. in an application for a marriage license, she stated it was her ``first and only'' marriage. barrientos, now 39, is facing two criminal counts of ``offering a false instrument for filing in the first degree,'' referring to her false statements on the 2010 marriage license application, according to court documents.
the picture was apparently uploaded on imgur a few days ago and has caught fire thanks to a post on the website 9gag. com. some people are noting the apparent motion of the cat.
it was the day after my little brother, jimmy, died of cancer. and it's not because he opened the floodgates to allow sin in the eyes of the church. the 57-year-old presides at the basilica cathedral of notre dame in quebec city.
( cnn ) mullah mohammed omar is ``still the leader'' of the taliban's self-declared islamic emirate of afghanistan. that appears to be the primary message of a biography, just published by the taliban, of the reclusive militant who is credited with founding the group in the early 1990s. several afghan observers say the biography is aimed at dispelling rumors of omar's demise.
( cnn ) an amnesty international report is calling for authorities to address the number of attacks on women's rights activists in afghanistan. the report, entitled ``their lives on the line,'' examines the persecution of activists and other champions of women's rights not only by the taliban and tribal warlords, but also by government officials. its publication is timely.
( cnn ) hip-hop star nelly has been arrested on drug charges in tennessee after a state trooper pulled over the private bus in which he was traveling, authorities said. the 40-year-old rapper from st. louis, who shot to fame 15 years ago with the track ``country grammar,'' has been charged with felony possession of drugs, simple possession of marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia, the tennessee department of safety and homeland security said. cnn's janet digiacomo contributed to this report.
( cnn ) ``star wars'' fans will get more than they bargained for when the saga comes to digital hd on friday. the collection of the first six ``star wars'' movies will also include many special features, some of which give fans a rare glimpse behind the scenes of the saga. '' `star wars' universe gets its first gay character.
( cnn ) hillary clinton is finally announcing her candidacy for the 2016 presidential election. americans have many positive memories of clinton name, given the booming economy of the late 1990s during bill clinton's presidency. clinton doesn't want to end up like vice president al gore in 2000.
des moines, iowa ( cnn ) martin o'malley told reporters in iowa on friday that inevitability -- a term bandied about regarding democratic presidential frontrunner hillary clinton -- is not unbreakable. '' clinton was considered inevitable to win the nomination in 2008 but ended up losing to barack obama. in some polls, he has scored in the low single digits in the state.
new delhi ( cnn ) an indian software pioneer and nine others have been sentenced to seven years in jail for their role in what has been dubbed india's biggest corporate scandal in memory, police said. ramalinga raju, the former chairman of software services exporter satyam computers services, was also fined $ 804,000, r.k. gaur, a spokesman for india's central bureau of investigation, told cnn. he had founded satyam in 1987.
( cnn ) when photographer johan bavman became a father for the first time, he took more than a passing wonder about how his native sweden is said to be the most generous nation on earth for parental leave. get this : sweden grants a total of 480 calendar days of parental leave, with 390 of them paid at 80 % of income, with a maximum of 3,160 euros a month or $ 3,474. the remaining 90 days are paid at a flat-rate benefit of 20 euros a day, or $ 22.
( cnn ) craig hicks, who is charged in the deaths of three muslim college students in chapel hill, north carolina, earlier this year, can face the death penalty, a judge ruled monday, according to cnn affiliates. superior court judge orlando hudson jr. ruled that hicks' case is ``death penalty qualified,'' wral and wtvd reported. all three were shot in the head.
' the network released a teaser video for season 2 of the critically acclaimed show, and it looks intense. colin farrell, vince vaughn, rachel mcadams and taylor kitsch star in the new season, which premieres june 21. '' yes, please.
more than 200 students signed a petition asking the school not to show the movie as part of umix, a series of social events the university stages for students. bradley cooper was nominated for an oscar for his portrayal of chris kyle, a navy seal and the most lethal sniper in u.s. military history. kyle was fatally shot at a texas shooting range in 2013.
( cnn ) lauren hill, who took her inspirational fight against brain cancer onto the basketball court and into the hearts of many, has died at age 19. mount st. joseph university in cincinnati successfully petitioned the ncaa to move up the opening game of its schedule to accommodate her desire to play. hill died early friday.
( cnn ) a 32-year-old massachusetts man is facing murder charges, authorities said wednesday, four days after another man's remains were found in a duffel bag. the middlesex district attorney's office said that carlos colina, 32, will be arraigned the morning of april 14 for murder in connection with the remains discovered saturday in cambridge. earlier this week, colina was arraigned on charges of assault and battery causing serious bodily injury and improper disposal of a body.
( cnn ) chris copeland of the indiana pacers was stabbed after leaving a trendy new york nightclub early wednesday, and two atlanta hawks -- who had just finished a home game hours before the incident -- were among those arrested, according to police and cnn affiliates. the hawks were not involved in the stabbing incident, police said, but were arrested on obstruction and other charges later. copeland's pacers are slated to play the new york knicks on wednesday night.
( cnn ) a year after its cannes debut and finally seeing a theatrical release, ``lost river'' is still causing quite a stir. booed at its premiere and mocked by reviewers, ryan gosling's first feature as director has been divisive, to put it mildly. but there has been one shining light cutting through the fog of critical hyperbole : its setting, a besmirched and decaying detroit.
( cnn ) all elizabeth sedway wanted was to leave paradise and head home. that's what she said in a video posted to facebook that shows her group packing up from their alaska airlines plane as it sat at the gate in hawaii. '' her cancer fight notwithstanding, sedway was in hawaii in time to celebrate her 14th wedding anniversary.
( cnn ) it took prosecutors months to present 131 witnesses to support their claim that former nfl star aaron hernandez killed semi-pro player odin lloyd. on monday, hernandez's defense gave its side of the story, wrapping up its witnesses in less than a day. hernandez, 25, is on trial for the shooting death of lloyd, whose body was found in a massachusetts industrial park in june 2013.
one day, two men sent by her husband showed up at her house armed with a shotgun and orders to kill her. they probably would have succeeded, but after the first bullet was fired, cifuentes' two sons dragged her inside. a 2012 small arms survey says gender-based violence is at epidemic levels in guatemala and the country ranks third in the killings of women worldwide.
( cnn ) a federal grand jury has charged millionaire real estate heir robert durst, a convicted felon, with unlawful possession of a firearm. in this week's indictment, durst, 71, is accused of possessing a.38 caliber revolver, which authorities allegedly found in his hotel room last month. he faces a maximum of 10 years in prison if found guilty of that charge, according to the indictment.
in the next few weeks the department of justice ( doj ) will begin to negotiate in earnest with the city to restructure the police department, which the department has charged with engaging in a pattern and practice of racial discrimination. now, after a half year of unrest, and with citizens on tuesday electing two new black city council members, change is beginning to come to ferguson. now the council will be 50 % black.
( cnn ) a delaware father is in stable condition and improving as his two boys remain in critical condition after they became sick -- perhaps from pesticide exposure, federal officials say -- during a trip to the u.s. virgin islands. steve esmond, his teenage sons and the teens' mother fell ill more than two weeks ago in st. john, where they were renting a villa at the sirenusa resort. the teens' mother, theresa devine, was treated at a hospital and released, and is in occupational therapy, maron said.
atlanta ( cnn ) a passenger on an atlanta-bound air canada flight told a cnn reporter on the plane friday that a stranger sitting behind him tried to choke him. oliver minatel, 22, said he was sleeping on air canada flight 8623 from toronto when he felt something around his neck. the suspect was escorted off the plane.
( cnn ) there was a larger message in the article about a purported gang rape that rolling stone retracted on sunday night -- a part of the story that was never disputed : the university of virginia is under continuing investigation over how it handles sexual assault on campus. the school has never expelled a single student for sexual assault -- even when the student admitted to it. the alleged gang rape at a fraternity house was in 2012, and jackie told the university about it the next spring.
( cnn ) saturday at the masters, like any pga tournament, has been dubbed `moving day'. players rose and players fell away on moving day at the 2015 masters. rory mcilroy went out in 32 and briefly raised the crowd's hopes that he had a sniff of completing an improbable grand slam on sunday night.
the force is with the streaming device of your choice, thanks to this week's surprise announcement that the entire ``star wars'' saga ( so far, anyway ) would be released on digital hd at the end of the week. between this and the release of ``daredevil,'' we imagine lots of nerds called in sick on friday. ``the vampire diaries'' crisis.
7-eleven is hosting the first bring-your-own-cup slurpee day at united states stores from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. saturday to kick off peak slurpee season. this shot at brain freeze isn't free, but customers at participating stores can fill their ``cup'' of choice for $ 1.49, the average cost of a medium slurpee. note : a garbage can is not a cup.
( cnn ) the graffiti, written in a french chalk quarry and dating back almost 100 years, is plain and stark. ``hj leach. merely a private.
durham, north carolina ( cnn ) president obama's nomination of loretta lynch to become the country's first african-american woman attorney general is a historic pick. the period between the senate judiciary committee's vote to confirm and the full senate vote -- which in lynch's case has not been scheduled -- has lasted longer for her than for any attorney general nominee in recent history. '' allison said.
the lamborghini's passenger, 36-year-old gary terry of davenport, florida, died at the scene, florida highway patrol said. the driver of the lamborghini, 24-year-old tavon watson of kissimmee, florida, lost control of the vehicle, the highway patrol said. he was hospitalized with minor injuries.
this year is the 20th anniversary of the discovery of a planet around a star like our own sun, 51 pegasi. since then, ground-based surveys and nasa's kepler satellite have discovered nearly 2,000 confirmed ``exoplanets,'' and thousands more candidates await confirmation. life on earth developed in its oceans about a billion years after the planet formed.
london ( cnn ) it wasn't messrs clooney, pitt and their nine accomplices who sailed down an elevator shaft and cracked open dozens of safety deposit boxes at a london vault during the easter weekend. but last weekend's raid in the heart of the city's jewelry district feels like it has been taken from a movie like ``ocean 11'' given its daring and planning. '' ).
( cnn ) the commissioner-general of the united nations relief and works agency will make an emergency visit to the yarmouk palestinian refugee camp in syria on saturday, a spokesman says. yarmouk has been largely cut off from aid since november 2013. ``we will not abandon hope,'' gunness said.
( cnn ) fans of the late actor paul walker knew that watching him in ``furious 7'' would be bittersweet. the tribute to paul walker was very well done,'' one woman said monday on twitter. hers was just one of a flood of messages on social media from people who said they got choked up during scenes featuring walker, who died at 40 in a car crash in november 2013, before filming on ``furious 7'' was completed.
( cnn ) recently, a new york judge issued an opinion authorizing service of divorce papers on a husband completely via facebook. what exactly is ``service of process'' ? one form of alternate service is ``nail and mail'' service.
( the hollywood reporter ) the original cast of twin peaks is backing david lynch in his salary standoff with showtime. sherilyn fenn, sheryl lee, james marshall, peggy lipton and other familiar faces from the series appear in the video. ).
billboard reports that the singer's family is creating a version of the singer that will be ``walking, talking, singing and dancing digital embodiment'' of her persona. the technology is being handled by acrovirt llc, a nevada-based tech company. the project is being called ``selena the one.
of the ship's 2,117 passengers, 95 have suffered from vomiting, diarrhea and other symptoms, the cdc said. the illness has also affected five members of the 964-person crew. the cdc has yet to determine what's causing the ailments.
( cnn ) five young chinese feminists, whose detention has provoked an international outcry, may face up to five years in prison over their campaign for gender equality. the women were among detained on march 6 and march 7 in three chinese cities -- beijing, guangzhou and hangzhou -- shortly before events they had planned for international women's day on march 8. '' on women's day.
( cnn ) a judge this week sentenced a former tsa agent to six months in jail for secretly videotaping a female co-worker while she was in the bathroom, prosecutors said. during the investigation, detectives with the metro nashville police department in tennessee also found that the agent, 33-year-old daniel boykin, entered the woman's home multiple times, where he took videos, photos and other data. police found more than 90 videos and 1,500 photos of the victim on boykin's phone and computer.
the oregon parks and recreation department has reported that a section of a fiberglass boat 20 or 30 feet long was spotted off the state's coast this week and has been towed into harbor. the debris is suspected to be from the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan on march 11, 2011. the boat fragment was found this week and towed to newport, oregon, where it is moored at a marina.
cuba pulled off a diplomatic coup by marshaling the support of other regional countries to insist on their attendance at the summit of the americas. and for the first time since 1962, the u.s. has not blocked cuba's attempt to join. with the historic thawing in relations between the u.s. and cuba, washington now has urgent business to discuss with havana.
irbil, iraq ( cnn ) isis claimed it controlled part of iraq's largest oil refinery sunday, posting images online that purported to show the storming of the facility, fierce clashes and plumes of smoke rising above the contested site. the group said it launched an assault on the baiji oil refinery late saturday. cnn couldn't independently verify isis' claim.
( cnn ) two alabama college students are accused of gang raping a woman while on spring break at florida's panama city beach. ryan calhoun and delonte martistee, students at troy university, were arrested and charged with sexual battery by multiple perpetrators, according to a statement from the bay county, florida, sheriff's office. she was a visitor in panama city.
alaska airlines flight 448 was just barely on its way to los angeles from seattle-tacoma international airport on monday afternoon when the pilot reported hearing unusual banging from the cargo hold. the cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled, the airline said. the plane was also only in the air for 14 minutes.
( cnn ) a hooded angel with black wings appeared on tuesday near the spot where walter scott was shot and killed by a police officer in north charleston, south carolina, on saturday. creator phillip hyman grew up in the neighborhood where scott, an unarmed black man, was shot in the back several times by a white police officer on saturday. hyman was happy to oblige.
( cnn ) after a russian fighter jet intercepted a u.s. reconnaissance plane in an ``unsafe and unprofessional manner'' earlier this week, the united states is complaining to moscow about the incident. on tuesday, a u.s. rc-135u was flying over the baltic sea when it was intercepted by a russian su-27 flanker. the pentagon said the incident occurred in international airspace north of poland.
( cnn ) for more than four days, police say, a 21-year-old quadriplegic with cerebral palsy was left lying in the woods of philadelphia's cobbs creek park with only a blanket and a bible. the person responsible is the man's mother, who on sunday faced a host of charges after allegedly abandoning her son and catching a bus to maryland to see her boyfriend, said philadelphia police lt. john walker. low temperatures reached the mid-30s during the week, and rain was reported in the area wednesday and thursday.
washington ( cnn ) president barack obama says he is ``absolutely committed to making sure'' israel maintains a military advantage over iran. his comments to the new york times, published on sunday, come amid criticism from israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu of the deal that the united states and five other world powers struck with iran. the talks over a final draft are scheduled to continue until june 30.
``this crime has rightly caused outrage both in nigeria and across the world,'' the country's president-elect, muhammadu buhari, said tuesday in marking the anniversary. '' the girls were abducted on the night of april 14-15, 2014, in the town of chibok, in northeastern nigeria, about a two-hour drive from the border with cameroon. the world was appalled.
( cnn ) police added attempted murder to the list of charges against the mother of a quadriplegic man who was left in the woods for days, philadelphia police spokeswoman christine o'brien said tuesday. nyia parler can not be extradited to face the charges in philadelphia until she completes an unspecified ``treatment,'' maryland police said monday. when she does arrive, she will be charged with aggravated assault, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and related offenses, in addition to the attempted murder count, o'brien said.
( cnn ) a new kansas law banning a common second-term abortion procedure is the first of its kind in the united states. the law, signed by kansas gov. sam brownback on tuesday, bans what it describes as ``dismemberment abortion'' and defines as ``knowingly dismembering a living unborn child and extracting such unborn child one piece at a time from the uterus. ``we'll continue to fight !
( cnn ) the mother of a quadriplegic man who police say was left in the woods for days can not be extradited to face charges in philadelphia until she completes an unspecified ``treatment,'' maryland police said monday. the montgomery county ( maryland ) department of police took nyia parler, 41, into custody sunday after philadelphia police reported that she left her 21-year-old son in the woods while she hopped a bus to see her boyfriend in maryland. a man walking through the woods found him friday ``lying in leaves, covered in a blanket with a bible and a wheelchair nearby,'' philadelphia police say.
these are only two of the 100 challenges chinese-born, american-based jia jiang put himself up to when he decided to blog about ``100 days of rejection'', a project he launched after he quit his comfortable six-figure job to follow his dreams of being an entrepreneur at the age of 30, just weeks before his first child was born. after his tech start-up was declined investment, jiang decided to confront his fear of rejection head-on. this led to his writing his book called rejection proof, part self-help and part motivational/autobiography, which is being released this week.
( cnn ) over the last year more than 25,000 people, a population about the size of key west, florida, have fought ebola infections. it revealed real flaws in government systems that are supposed to protect us. the latest world health organization report confirmed a total of 30 new confirmed cases of ebola were reported in the week of april 5.
( cnn ) the first daughter to be married from the hit reality show ``19 kids and counting'' has also become the first mother. people magazine reports that jill ( duggar ) dillard gave birth monday to a 9-pound, 10-ounce son she and husband derick have named israel david. ' the baby will come when the baby comes.
cnn situation room correspondent brian todd and photojournalist khalil abdallah were on their way to interview a legal analyst on l street nw when they happened on a brood of baby ducks causing a stir. a man gave up his umbrella for the cause ``while the mom was going crazy. ).
( cnn ) the killing of an employee at wayne community college in goldsboro, north carolina, may have been a hate crime, authorities said tuesday. investigators are looking into the possibility, said goldsboro police sgt. jeremy sutton. the victim -- ron lane, whom officials said was a longtime employee and the school's print shop operator -- was white, as is the suspect.
( cnn ) former australia cricket captain and legendary broadcaster richie benaud has died at the age of 84. benaud, whose witty one-liners from the commentary box resonated far beyond australia's shores, said last year he was being treated for skin cancer. ``to most australians richie benaud was cricket.
( cnn ) there's an old saying which states the cape verde islands are home to a greater number of musicians per square kilometer than any other country in the world. situated roughly 350 miles off the west coast of africa, cape verde has long been a mesh of cultures, history and races. now, cape verde is seeking to tap-into the spoils of this rich cultural heritage in a bid to help its economy flourish.
( cnn ) desperate migrants from africa and the middle east keep heading to europe, with 978 rescued friday in the mediterranean sea, the italian coast guard said saturday via twitter. the migrants were picked up 30 miles off the coast of libya, said european parliament member matteo salvini, the leader of italy's far-right northern league. they use libya as a country of transit.
' ``romeo and juliet. new research indicates that ``double falsehood,'' a play first published in 1728 by lewis theobald, was actually written more than a century earlier by shakespeare himself with help from his friend john fletcher. ``the match between the `double falsehood' play and shakespeare was a landslide.
nairobi, kenya ( cnn ) kenya froze dozens of accounts linked to suspected terror supporters after militants massacred 147 people last week at a university in garissa. the government is tracking the finances of people suspected of ties to al-shabaab, the militant group that claimed responsibility for the thursday attack. ``they were just children.
( cnn ) irish betting company paddy power is backtracking after tweeting that ``newcastle have suffered more kop beatings over the last 20 years than an unarmed african-american male. '' the tweet, a pun on the name of the famous home end at liverpool football club, alluded to recent controversial incidents in the united states in which unarmed african-american men have been killed by police. this is for real.
last week, she made it into outer space. a nasa astrophysicist has named an asteroid after the teenage education activist from pakistan, who was gravely wounded by a pakistani taliban gunman for promoting the right of girls' to go to school. but malala recovered with no serious neurological damage to become a powerhouse for her cause.
( cnn ) last month wu rongrong was taken into custody for planning to protest on international women's day against sexual harassment in china. since then, the chinese authorities have formally detained her and four other activists for ``creating disturbances. '' they also briefly detained some of the activists' supporters, raided a prominent nongovernmental organization that called for their release, and have at points denied some of the women access to medical treatment, lawyers and adequate rest.
( cnn ) jodi arias was sentenced to life in prison monday for the gruesome 2008 murder of her ex-boyfriend travis alexander. maricopa county judge sherry stephens could have sentenced arias to life with the possibility of early release after 25 years, but decided the convicted killer should spend the rest of her life behind bars. arias, 34, was found guilty of first-degree murder in may 2013.
that was the message friday from attorney general eric holder to members of the u.s. justice department, which includes the fbi, u.s. marshals service, bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives and other agencies. ``the solicitation of prostitution threatens the core mission of the department,'' holder wrote in a memo to all personnel in the department he heads. '' agents behaving badly overseas.
( cnn ) hillary clinton finally answered the question we've all been asking for years : will she run for president in 2016 ? granted, 80 % of elected officials throughout the country will still be men. women will continue to be less likely than men even to consider running for office.
( cnn ) it's a good thing -- a lucky thing -- that a bystander had the courage and presence of mind to record the shocking video that shows a white police officer, michael slager, gunning down and killing an apparently unarmed black man named walter scott after a traffic stop in north charleston, south carolina. and the resulting national wave of revulsion and indignation -- along with the prompt arrest of slager on murder charges -- is a welcome and appropriate response. it's not supposed to be a mystery : more than 20 years ago, congress approved a law, the violent crime control and law enforcement act of 1994, signed by president bill clinton, that requires the federal justice department to collect data on deaths caused by police.
( cnn ) recently, nashville's district attorney banned prosecutors from offering female sterilization in plea deals. some have claimed this practice ``evokes a dark corner of american history'' where the mentally ill or ``deficient'' were forced to undergo sterilization. female sterilization is linked to the controversial ``eugenics'' movement, which advocated for the notion that the human race can be improved by selective breeding of people with superior genes.
he was born in american samoa, a u.s. territory since 1900. the fourteenth amendment declares that ``all persons born.. in the united states, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the united states. '' yet, afalava has been denied the right to vote because the federal government insists that he is no citizen.
( cnn ) after two days of deliberation, jurors found dzhokhar tsarnaev guilty on all counts in the boston marathon bombing. today, nearly 1 out of 4 people in the world are muslim. by 2050, pew reports, that will be some 1 out of 3.
on thursday, apple released a new version of its mobile operating system that includes more diversity than ever when it comes to the race, ethnicity and sexual orientation of its emojis -- those cute little images that users can insert into text messages or emails when words alone just won't cut it. for many, these images are far more than tiny clip art for texting. there is more.
( cnn ) i'm haunted by the video of officer michael slager firing eight shots at walter scott as he fled his encounter with north charleston police -- his back turned to the officer. it will help ensure that justice will be served in this case. of course not.
london ( cnn ) the pentagon released a map this week showing coalition forces have taken back 25-30 % of iraqi territory seized by isis. the map, above, shows gains in key central and northern areas of iraq where the terror group was previously the dominant force. what does it say about the wider fight against isis ?
( cnn ) laying down tracks for their debut album in the recording studio in los angeles, iman hashi, 25 and her sister siham, 27 could not be further from their hometown of mogadishu. the sisters were born in the somali capital but were forced to flee after war broke out in 1991. it's a fusion of everything.
( cnn ) even in the horror of syria's civil war, there are few places that showcase the scale of the destruction -- and the senselessness of the loss of life -- more than the yarmouk camp on the outskirts of damascus. set up as a refugee camp for palestinians in the 1950s, it slowly evolved into a neighborhood over the years, but since 2012 it has been engulfed in the syrian conflict. two weeks ago isis fighters stormed yarmouk, and that made life for those still inside even worse than it was before.
( cnn ) in 2013, ``the bible'' broke ratings records on the history channel, so of course, a sequel was ordered up -- and this one is on nbc. the new miniseries from mark burnett and roma downey is one of six shows to watch this week. ``a.d.
( cnn ) for superhero fans, the cup runneth over. but there was one character who remained a mystery : the vision, to be played by paul bettany. with less than a month to go before the movie hits theaters, marvel studios put all the speculation to rest with a poster featuring bettany as the heroic android, who was a member of the superhero group for many years in the comics.
she was tired after more than two years of pain, punctuated wednesday when her son's killer, aaron hernandez, was convicted of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison. odin lloyd was her first born, her only son. odin was his sisters' keeper,'' ward told judge susan garsh, before garsh sentenced the former pro-football player.
( cnn ) danny kahneman, my good friend and co-author who got a nobel prize in economics, once helped to run an experiment involving patients undergoing colonoscopies. the psychology of it is simple to understand : happy endings matter. the fact of the matter is there is plenty not to like when it comes to the u.s. tax system.
( cnn ) former new england patriots star aaron hernandez will need to keep his lawyers even after being convicted of murder and other charges in the death of odin lloyd. next up is another murder trial in which he is accused of killing two men and wounding another person near a boston nightclub in july 2012. prosecutors have said hernandez fatally shot daniel de abreu and safiro furtado when he fired into their 2003 bmw.
( cnn ) as americans mark the 150th anniversary of abraham lincoln's death this week, let us remember that he not only belongs to the ages, but also belongs, in a special way, to illinois. retracing lincoln's assassination 150 years later. remembering lincoln's murder.
center for elephant conservation sits on 200 acres of land in rural central florida, halfway between orlando and sarasota, off a nondescript country road. '' twenty-nine elephants currently live here, and 13 more will join the group by 2018, after ringling bros. decided this year to stop using elephants in its traveling circus. ``this is a genetic resource bank for asian elephants.
( cnn ) arsenal kept their slim hopes of winning this season's english premier league title alive by beating relegation threatened burnley 1-0 at turf moor. a first half goal from welsh international aaron ramsey was enough to separate the two sides and secure arsenal's hold on second place. '' relegation dogfight.
that was the big twist at the end of ``orphan black's'' second season. the kickoff to the new season leads the list of six things to watch in the week ahead. ``orphan black,'' 9 p.m. et, saturday, april 18, bbc america.
( billboard ) from channing tatum twerking for jennifer lopez to host amy schumer's archery fail, there were plenty of highlights and misfires from the 2015 mtv movie awards. 2015 mtv movie awards : see the full winners list. best moments.
the pitch-black-dark new series streamed its entire first season on netflix on friday morning, and the early word is quite good. charlie cox is perfectly cast as blind attorney matt murdock, whose nights are consumed with cleaning up the new york neighborhood of hell's kitchen while dressed in a black ninjaesque outfit. as the season unfolds, he heads toward a confrontation with vincent d'onofrio's wilson fisk, a.k.a. the kingpin.
( hlntv ) actress alyssa milano had some angry tweets for heathrow airport authorities thursday morning after workers there allegedly confiscated breast milk she'd pumped for her daughter while she was on a plane. milano, who was on a trip with her husband that she described in an earlier tweet as a ``romantic getaway,'' was furious. see the original story at hlntv.com.
( cnn ) cynthia lennon, who married john lennon when he was a struggling musician and was there when he rose to fame with the beatles, died wednesday, according to a post on the website of her son, julian. she was 75. ``he was a rebel.
( cnn ) the first trailer for a documentary on the life and music of late british singer amy winehouse was released thursday. the teaser for ``amy : the girl behind the name,'' set for uk release on july 3, features early footage of winehouse talking about how her music career was born and where she believed she was headed. she died from alcohol poisoning at the age of 27 on july 23, 2011.
investigators have taken dives to the bottom of lakes, dug up a grave, chased more than 300 reported sightings from arizona to north carolina, dropped fliers over slovenia, consulted a psychic, interviewed a member of the hell's angels and enlisted nasa technology. when he went missing that friday morning on april 15, 2005, he left behind a live-in girlfriend, a beautiful and successful daughter and a bank account that was supposed to fund a fast-approaching retirement. his red mini cooper was found abandoned near a bridge on the susquehanna river about 55 miles away from his home.
just last week, dzhokhar tsarnaev was convicted on 30 charges related to the bombings at the race and the dramatic violence that dragged out for days afterward. the death penalty is on the table. dzhokhar and his brother tamerlan, who was killed in a shootout with police, were intent on terrorizing not just bostonians, but all americans, prosecutors said.
but not in 2013, when three people died and over 200 were injured when a pair of bombs went off within 12 seconds of each other at the finish line. that begins april 21, a day after this year's edition of the landmark race. the maximum penalty for several of the charges is death.
nairobi, kenya ( cnn ) university of nairobi students were terrified sunday morning when they heard explosions -- caused by a faulty electrical cable -- and believed it was a terror attack, the school said. students on the kikuyu campus stampeded down the halls of the kimberly dormitory, and some jumped from its fifth floor, the university said. hundreds were injured and were taken to hospitals.
tokyo ( cnn ) the operator of the crippled fukushima daiichi nuclear plant has given up trying to recover a robotic probe after it stopped moving inside one of the reactors. tokyo electric power company ( tepco ) deployed the remote-controlled robot on friday inside one of the damaged reactors that had suffered a meltdown following a devastating earthquake and tsunami in 2011. it was the first time the probe had been used.
( cnn ) the tulsa county reserve deputy who fatally shot a man instead of using his taser turned himself in to authorities tuesday at the tulsa county jail. video shows reserve deputy robert bates announcing he is going to deploy his taser after an undercover weapons sting on april 2 but then shooting eric courtney harris in the back with a handgun. bates was charged with second-degree manslaughter monday.
hong kong ( cnn ) there's a booming black market in hong kong, but it's not for fake apple watches, or the iphone. instead, people are going crazy for tins of butter cookies. tourists and locals line up around the block for several hours just to get their hands on jenny's cookies -- at $ 9 a tin.
baghdad, iraq ( cnn ) hundreds of additional iraqi troops are being sent to reinforce colleagues who are trying to fend off isis' attempt to overrun iraq's largest oil refinery, a key paramilitary force said tuesday. the reinforcements come four days after isis began attacking northern iraq's baiji oil refinery, a key strategic resource that has long been a target because the facility refines much of the fuel used by iraqis domestically. isis launched an assault on the baiji oil refinery late saturday.
washington ( cnn ) isis is a problem that is ``off the charts historically'' and has sent the united states into ``uncharted territory'' when it comes to putting down the terror group, the obama administration's point man in the fight recently told cnn. '' mcgurk just returned from an urgent summit of coalition nations held in jordan. the united states now lists 62 countries in the coalition.
( cnn ) more than 500 houthi rebels have been killed since the start of saudi-led military operations against yemeni shia fighters, a saudi defense ministry official said saturday, according to the state-run saudi press agency. a saudi general said saturday the nine-nation coalition has undertaken 1,200 airstrikes since they began on march 26. saudi forces responded to mortar rounds fired by houthis on a saudi border site.
obock, djibouti ( cnn ) amina ali qassim is sitting with her youngest grandchild on her lap, wiping away tears with her headscarf. she lay awake, she says, in a village mosque on the yemeni island of birim, counting explosions as the baby cried. they could have still been in their house when the first missile landed.
kano, nigeria ( cnn ) an explosion late thursday outside a bus station in the northeast nigerian city of gombe killed at least five people and injured more than a dozen others, witnesses said. the bus was heading to the central nigerian city of jos, 125 kilometers away. ``there has been an explosion just outside the motor park and five people have been killed while more than 12 others have been seriously injured,'' said adamu saidu, an employee at the bus station.
( cnn ) a former u.s. army enlistee who posted on facebook about ``the adrenaline rush'' of dying in jihad was arrested friday and charged with trying to detonate a car bomb at fort riley military base in kansas, authorities said. a second man, who allegedly knew about the bomb plot but didn't call authorities, was charged with failing to report a felony. john t. booker jr. of topeka, an american citizen also known as mohammed abdullah hassan, was taken into custody near manhattan, kansas, in a van that contained what he thought was a bomb, the criminal complaint said.
the vast majority of the camp's occupants are from the town of sinjar and fled the isis assault there back in august. isis took thousands of yazidis captive. but the islamist militants separated the young women and girls to be sold as sex slaves.
lagos, nigeria ( cnn ) a day after winning nigeria's presidency, muhammadu buhari told cnn's christiane amanpour that he plans to aggressively fight corruption that has long plagued nigeria and go after the root of the nation's unrest. buhari said he'll ``rapidly give attention'' to curbing violence in the northeast part of nigeria, where the terrorist group boko haram operates. '' buhari, 72, will be sworn in on may 29.
( cnn ) hillary clinton's campaign-in-waiting met on saturday in its brooklyn headquarters, a day before the former secretary of state officially announces her campaign for president, according to a democrat who attended the meeting. robby mook, clinton's soon-to-be campaign manager, distributed a ``values statement'' at the meeting that outlined what the campaign will stand for, what their goals are and how they plan to win -- something clinton failed to do in 2008. many of the ``guiding principles'' in the memo mention issues that sunk clinton's first campaign.
west of baghdad, iraq ( cnn ) the call from faleh essawi, the deputy chief of the provincial council, who we were supposed to be meeting up with, came just as we were about to hit the bridge -- the only safe route from baghdad to neighboring anbar province. cars are not permitted to cross this bridge across the euphrates. '' his friend died, he says.
( cnn ) it was a typical practice day for the washington university of rowing team, but then danger came from beneath. the scene was creve coeur lake outside of st. louis early friday morning. team member devin patel described the moment of terror : ``the fish was flopping on my legs.
( cnn ) the white house insists it doesn't need congressional approval for the iran nuclear deal announced this month. true, the fight for congressional approval would be politically bruising and consume a huge amount of energy. there is good reason for obama to avoid calling this a treaty.
( cnn ) gwyneth paltrow, the actress turned lifestyle guru, is known for promoting detoxes and health cleanses on her site, goop.com. the amount of supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits a person can get is based on the u.s. department of agriculture's thrifty food plan. her participation is part of the #foodbanknycchallenge.
gov. nathan deal signed a bill thursday that will legalize low-thc cannabis oil for certain ``medication-resistant epilepsies,'' while creating an infrastructure, registration process and research program for the drug. ( thc is the primary psychoactive substance in marijuana. the bill is dubbed haleigh's hope act.
( cnn ) lady antebellum singer hillary scott's tour bus caught fire on a texas freeway thursday morning, but everyone on board was safely evacuated. michael barnett captured dramatic video of the fire, on interstate 30 just northeast of dallas, and uploaded it to cnn ireport. ``it was shocking,'' he said.
cairo ( cnn ) at least 12 people were killed sunday, and more injured, in separate attacks on a police station, a checkpoint and along a highway in egypt's northern sinai, authorities said. he said 40 people were injured. ansar beit al-maqdis has claimed many attacks against the army and police in sinai.
( cnn ) the cuba that photographer carolina sandretto captures is a world away from the images of neon 1950s american cars and postcard-worthy white sand beaches that most visitors to the island bring back home. social media. i am italian.
washington ( cnn ) in a broad bipartisan vote, the senate on tuesday gave final approval to a medicare reform bill that includes a permanent solution to the ``doc fix,'' a method the government has used to ensure payments to medicare providers will keep up with inflation. the bill, which passed 92 to 8, also includes a two-year extension of a popular children's health insurance program. the issue of payments to medicare providers has been a thorny issue for years.
( cnn ) caught up in a rip current while snorkeling at finn's beach in bali, roxy walsh was holding on to some rocks when she spotted something special. ``hi all. found this gold ring snorkeling at finns beach in bali today.
( cnn ) parents who refuse to vaccinate their children can lose up to $ 11,000 of welfare benefits a year under a new government policy, australian prime minister tony abbott has announced. currently parents can choose to opt out of vaccinations for medical or religious reasons, or by stating they are ``conscientious objectors,'' and still receive taxpayer funded child care benefits. under the new ``no jab, no pay'' policy, the exemption as a conscientious objector will be removed starting january 2016.
( cnn ) it's no surprise which image is making the headlines from this week's gathering of leaders from nearly three dozen nations in panama : a historic handshake between president barack obama and cuban president raul castro. but this first meeting of obama and castro since they announced plans to start normalizing diplomatic ties should not be the end of the summit story. the foundations for a strong hemispheric bloc are there.
this is his sixth tour in iraq, and he's back doing a job that he's been tasked with before : training iraqi soldiers. but the u.s. military isn't the only contingent of western forces in the region -- dozens of foreigners, including americans, have volunteered to take the fight to isis. u.s. law enforcement officials say it is illegal to join a syrian militia.
the georgian chess grandmaster has been banned from the dubai open chess tournament after officials discovered he was darting to the toilet to consult his smartphone, which was logged onto a chess analysis app, the dubai chess and culture club said. but the phone was logged on to a social media network under his account. the infraction has been reported to the international chess federation.
tag your favorite unscripted, unedited, un-perfected moments using #meforreal and see what others are sharing on facebook, twitter and the daily share. the internet is always quick to dish out judgmental opinions, such as the body-hate people showed to singer p!nk after she posted a photo of herself in a black dress she wore to a cancer benefit this past weekend ( which, if you ask us, was pretty fantastic, and she looked fabulous in it. ).
some supervisors at the tulsa county sheriff's office were told to forge reserve deputy robert bates' training records, and three who refused were reassigned to less desirable duties, the tulsa world newspaper reported. claims that the volunteer deputy's records had been falsified emerged ``almost immediately'' from multiple sources after bates killed eric harris on april 2, reporter dylan goforth said. bates claims he meant to use his taser but accidentally fired his handgun at harris instead.
( cnn ) a new jersey auction house has removed items from its april 17 event after an uproar from the public. the items are crafts and artifacts made by japanese-americans confined to world war ii internment camps. a grass-roots campaign of a change.org petition, a facebook page, and mediation by ``star trek'' actor george takei has resulted in rago arts and auction center agreeing to pull the items from the sale.
a los angeles judge has ordered v. stiviano to pay back more than $ 2.6 million in gifts after sterling's wife sued her. in the lawsuit, rochelle ``shelly'' sterling accused stiviano of targeting extremely wealthy older men. she claimed donald sterling used the couple's money to buy stiviano a ferrari, two bentleys and a range rover, and that he helped her get a $ 1.8 million duplex.
( cnn ) nba player thabo sefolosha says police caused his season-ending leg injury when he was arrested last week after leaving a nightclub in new york. in a statement tuesday, the guard/forward for the atlanta hawks described his injury as ``significant,'' and said it ``was caused by the police. the hawks enter as the top seed in the nba's eastern conference.
( cnn ) from late january, when new england was living through one of its bleakest and snowiest winters, to a warm and sunny afternoon in april, the jurors in the first-degree murder trial of former nfl star aaron hernandez have considered how a promising young athlete who earned millions came to take the life of his onetime friend and future brother-in-law, odin lloyd. the jury of seven women and five men listened to more than 130 witnesses and reviewed more than 400 pieces of evidence over the months-long trial. on wednesday, they convicted hernandez, who was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole, after deliberating more than 35 hours over parts of seven days.
( cnn ) jason rezaian has sat in jail in iran for nearly nine months. the washington post's bureau chief in tehran was arrested in july on unspecified allegations. he is accused of economic spying, the post reported, citing iranian state media.
in an audio message released sunday, al qaeda confirmed that two of its leaders, known as ustad ahmad farooq and qari abdullah mansur, were killed in cia drone strikes in january in north waziristan, near the afghan-pakistan border. farooq's real name was raja mohammad suleman, al qaeda said. he was a pakistani who acted as the group's liaison to the pakistan taliban and was the deputy commander of al qaeda's south asia branch.
( cnn ) the u.n. security council voted tuesday in favor of an arms embargo on houthis -- the minority group that has taken over large swaths of yemen, including its capital, sanaa -- and supporters of former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh. the resolution ``raises the cost'' for the houthis, according to mark lyall grant, britain's ambassador to the united nations. russia abstained from tuesday's vote, saying it didn't like the inclusion of sanctions.
( cnn ) authorities detained a 15-year-old girl from cape town, south africa, at the city's airport after receiving information she was leaving the country to join isis, state security minister david mahlobo said. ``we are still conducting further investigation. virginia teen accused of being isis recruiter.
( cnn ) eleven channels associated with the french-language global television network tv5monde went black late wednesday due to an ``extremely powerful cyberattack,'' the network's director said. in addition to its 11 channels, tv5monde also temporarily lost control of its social media outlets and its websites, director yves bigot said in a video message posted later on facebook. but there was no immediate claim of responsibility by isis or any other group.
los angeles ( cnn ) former rap mogul marion ``suge'' knight was ordered thursday to stand trial for murder and other charges stemming from a deadly hit-and-run confrontation on the movie set of the biopic ``straight outta compton'' earlier this year. in addition to that ruling, judge ronald coen also lowered knight's bail to $ 10 million from $ 25 million, a figure that defense lawyers called excessive. knight, 49, faces up to life in prison if convicted.
bates -- the tulsa county, oklahoma, reserve sheriff's deputy accused of manslaughter in the death of a fleeing suspect -- told nbc's ``today'' show friday that he used to think that, too. ``believe me,'' he told the show in his first appearance since being charged in the april 2 death of eric harris, ``it can happen to anyone. '' harris died after bates shot him -- accidentally, he says -- after calling out ``taser !
( cnn ) as thousands of south africans took to the streets of the city of durban to rally against violence and xenophobia, an online community has joined the protests. hashtags are now pouring out of south africa. ``he is a monarch.
panama city beach, florida ( cnn ) a third person has been arrested in the case of an alleged spring break gang rape that was videotaped on a crowded stretch of panama city beach, the bay county, florida, sheriff's office said wednesday. police arrested the suspect at 11 p.m. tuesday. ``after developing information that george davon kennedy was the third suspect seen in the video of the gang rape, bcso investigators obtained a warrant for his arrest,'' according to a news release.
( cnn ) a measles outbreak that affected more than 130 californians since december is over, the california department of public health declared friday. it has been 42 days since the last known case of b3 strain of measles, the equivalent of two successive incubation periods, said dr. karen smith, director of the health department. of the 131 cases, the state was able to obtain the vaccination status for 81 patients.
``furious 7'' hits theaters friday, months after controversy was stirred about the lack of diversity at the oscars. mexican filmmaker alejandro gonzalez iñarritu went on to win best director for ``birdman. '' in contrast, ``furious 7'' couldn't be more racially and ethnically inclusive.
( cnn ) a natural gas line explosion at a law enforcement shooting range in fresno, california, injured 11 people, including some inmates who were on a work detail there. the exact cause of friday's blast is under investigation, mims said, but it happened at the spot where a county worker was operating a front loader. there were 10 inmates near the blast site who were also injured, officials said.
a youtube user uploaded the handheld or camera phone capture of the trailer, which had spanish subtitles on the screen. '' ryan gosling in talks to star in ``blade runner'' sequel. the highly anticipated footage was set to premiere in imax theaters on monday.
( cnn ) no identification, no social security card and only a box to live on. john helinski was homeless and nameless for three years. charles inman could not bear to see his 62-year-old ward land back on the street, he told cnn affiliate wfts.
new york ( cnn ) a suburban new york cardiologist has been charged in connection with a failed scheme to have another physician hurt or killed, according to prosecutors. dr. anthony moschetto, 54, pleaded not guilty wednesday to criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson, criminal prescription sale and weapons charges in connection to what prosecutors called a plot to take out a rival doctor on long island. he was released after posting $ 2 million bond and surrendering his passport.
( cnn ) deputies rushed kenneth morgan stancil iii from court thursday after the 20-year-old murder suspect swore at a judge and tried to flip over a table. stancil is accused of killing an employee monday at wayne community college in goldsboro, north carolina. authorities arrested stancil after he was found sleeping on a florida beach on tuesday.
( cnn ) remains of up to nearly 400 unaccounted for service members tied to the uss oklahoma at pearl harbor will be exhumed this year, the defense department announced tuesday. '' the uss oklahoma sank when it was hit by torpedoes on december 7, 1941, during the japanese attack on pearl harbor. a total of 429 sailors and marines on the ship were killed.
( cnn ) thousands of syrian and palestinian refugees trapped in the yarmouk refugee camp have suffered what can only be described as untold indignities. i encountered two such individuals on my mission to damascus -- jihad and mohammad -- tiny, vulnerable infants who were taken from yarmouk in recent days, a place that was described last week by the u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon as ``the deepest circle of hell. '' the fact that they are alive truly make them miracle children.
its 573 students, all male, are staying home after kenyan president uhuru kenyatta announced three days of national mourning following last week's deadly attack at a nearby university. only a few kilometers away, 147 people -- mostly students -- were brutally massacred when al-shabaab militants invaded the campus in garissa, a town in northeastern kenya. he says he also taught with mohamud for two years.
( cnn ) isis claimed responsibility for a suicide car bomb attack friday near the u.s. consulate in the kurdish iraqi city of irbil, according to several twitter accounts linked to the terror group. the u.s. consulate was the target of the attack, isis said. at least four people were killed and 18 injured, police said.
not only does he shepherd nearly 1 billion catholic souls, he also leads a small but morally significant state with envoys and interests in nearly every country. sometimes, as when st. john paul ii stood up to communist poland, the church's moral and political clout have combined to pack a powerful punch. one hundred years ago, more than 1 million armenians ( some estimates run as high as 1.5 million ) died at the hand of the turks.
here are pop culture's most talked-about stories of the week. producers of ``star wars : the force awakens'' unveiled a nearly two-minute trailer for the upcoming movie, arriving in december. oh, britt mchenry.
to most of the outside world, this war-torn country is off limits, the weeks-long battle between houthi rebels and saudi-led coalition forces making it too dangerous to visit, and a no-fly zone rendering its international airport all but obsolete -- but on tuesday, cnn was granted rare access on a desperate aid mission by unicef, the united nations children's fund. the airport has previously been bombed. unicef hopes there will be just enough time to deliver vital food and supplies, helping to ease the country's worsening humanitarian crisis.
( cnn ) minnesota vikings running back adrian peterson will be reinstated as an active player by the nfl on friday, the league said. the nfl suspended the 30-year-old football star in november over allegations that last may he disciplined his son, who was 4 at the time, too harshly with a ``switch,'' or thin stick. it is unclear whether peterson will attend.
( cnn ) a tulsa county reserve deputy is on administrative leave after ``inadvertently'' shooting a suspect with his gun. police say robert ( bob ) bates, 73, thought he pulled out his taser during an arrest, but instead shot the suspect, who later died at a local hospital. police say harris, a convicted felon, sold undercover officers a pistol.
( cnn ) canadian actor jonathan crombie, who co-starred in the ``anne of green gables'' tv movies, died this week at age 48. crombie died wednesday from complications of a brain hemorrhage, ``anne of green gables'' producer kevin sullivan said. ``it's a real tragedy to see someone at age 48 go like that,'' he said.
( cnn ) the lawyer for robert bates, an oklahoma reserve deputy who fatally shot a man he meant to subdue with a taser, on saturday released documents that he says verify some of bates' training as a law enforcement officer. the documents show bates had one taser training class over a six-and-a-half-year period, took three firearms training classes and qualified 10 times, from 2009 to 2014, to use a handgun. bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter in the death of eric harris.
( cnn ) chinese police have arrested more than 133,000 people and seized 43.3 tons of illegal narcotics during a six-month anti-drug campaign, the country's ministry of public security has announced. liu said drug trafficking groups have ``suffered a heavy blow'' and drug users have been ``forcefully regulated. nine police officers died and another 657 were wounded in the mission, with 76 severely wounded.
tomasz lazar spent hours photographing and interviewing adults who were ripped from their homes as children in the 1940s and forced to live thousands of miles away in siberia. '' soviet authorities invaded poland during world war ii and deported hundreds of thousands of poles. some were sent to prison camps in the frozen wilderness of central russia.
( cnn ) most airline pilots have an above average ability to compartmentalize personal problems. the cockpit is our ``safe'' place. the flight deck is a structured world of black and white.
a study by we the people found that 80 % of women in mumbai had been street harassed, primarily in crowded areas like trains and railway platforms. most people are silent when inappropriate sexual behavior occurs to women. '' the reality is that sexual harassment in india is pervasive in all aspects of life.
( cnn ) this week's attack on garissa university college is al-shabaab's fifth major assault in kenya in the past year and a half. the thursday massacre was the most deadly assault so far, with 147 dead, easily eclipsing the terrorist group's most notorious attack, a four-day siege in late september 2013 at the westgate mall in nairobi in which 67 people were killed. al-shabaab says its attacks are to protest the more than 3,500 kenyan soldiers participating in the african union peacekeeping mission in somalia.
white will wrap his touring efforts in support of ``lazeretto'' with a brief, first-ever acoustic tour that will hit ``the only five states left in the u.s. that he has yet to play,'' according to white's website. rounding out the acoustic quartet on tour will be fats kaplin, lillie mae rische and dominic davis. ).
cnn confirms that michelle maclaren is leaving the upcoming ``wonder woman'' movie ( the hollywood reporter first broke the story ). maclaren was announced as director of the movie in november. ).
abc is filming a proof of concept for a revival of ``the muppets,'' the hollywood reporter has learned. ``the big bang theory'' co-creator bill prady is co-writing the script for a pilot presentation that sources say could be unspooled at may's upfront presentation to madison avenue advertisers. abc's ``muppets'' revival is being produced by abc studios and the muppet studios, which disney owns.
( cnn ) when etan patz went missing in new york city at age 6, hardly anyone in america could help but see his face at their breakfast table. on friday, more than 35 years after frenzied media coverage of his case horrified parents everywhere, a new york jury will again deliberate over a possible verdict against the man charged in his killing, pedro hernandez. he confessed to police three years ago.
( cnn ) a naturalized u.s. citizen pleaded not guilty in ohio friday to federal charges of providing material support to terrorists and lying to the fbi. abdirahman sheik mohamud, 23, of columbus, allegedly traveled to syria for training and wanted to return home to kill americans -- particularly u.s. soldiers, execution style, the u.s. department of justice said thursday. mohamud was remanded into custody on friday.
( cnn ) from the giant sequoias of yosemite to the geysers of yellowstone, the united states' national parks were made for you and me. and for saturday and sunday, they're also free. though most of the national park service's 407 sites are free year-round, the 128 parks that charge a fee -- like yellowstone and yosemite -- will be free those two days.
the small and unusual living space is all that this employed, single mother can afford in her high-cost community in san mateo, california. cnn recently published a powerful piece called ``poor kids of silicon valley'' that documents the affordable housing challenges facing families in the bay area. one aspect featured a house that is home to 16 people, including 11 children.
( cnn ) the public outrage over the ``religious freedom'' bills recently passed in arkansas and indiana caught the governors of those states completely off-guard, judging by their confused and contradictory responses. as poll watchers, they surely knew that most americans now oppose the discriminatory laws and practices they accepted as normal only a dozen years ago. but the politicians underestimated the pushback organized by local and national businesses, including companies with no previous record of public support for social equality.
( cnn ) in response to reports of big banks threatening to withhold campaign funds from senate democrats, sen. elizabeth warren last week offered a defiant response : ``bring it on. '' warren said she isn't going to slack off on her calls for breaking up banks and other measures to rein in wall street. he is not alone.
( cnn ) a jury of rolling stone's media peers has dissected the magazine's disastrous, discredited story about rape on the campus of the university of virginia, and the emerging consensus is that rolling stone's lapses and sloppy blunders amount to journalistic malpractice -- made all the worse by the magazine's head-in-the sand reaction to the thorough, devastating report released by a panel of investigators from the columbia university graduate school of journalism. rolling stone's egregious mistakes of reporting and editing are regrettable but understandable. the magazine's decision not to fire anybody or reorganize its newsroom operation is not.
Summary not found
debra lobo, a 55-year-old california native, was shot in the right cheek and left arm and is unconscious but expected to survive, according to mohamad shah, a karachi police spokesman. police found pamphlets that the assailants had thrown into lobo's car, written in urdu, saying ``america should be burnt,'' shah said. two assailants on a passing motorcycle shot her while she was driving, shah said.
( cnn ) thursday will mark three weeks since saudi arabia began airstrikes on houthi rebels in yemen. hopes for stability, not only in yemen but in the middle east in general, are fading as fears grow that saudia arabia and iran are fighting a proxy war in yemen for regional domination. yemen's health ministry said over the weekend that 385 civilians had been killed and 342 others had been wounded.
she's the focus of ines dumig's photo series ``apart together. '' dumig met sahra through a photo workshop at refugio, a shelter in munich, germany, for refugees and torture victims. '' the number of refugees seeking asylum in the european union increased by 25 % last year, with germany receiving the most applications.
( cnn ) two delaware boys are in a coma and their father still is unable to talk or move two weeks after they became sick -- perhaps from pesticide exposure, federal officials say -- during a trip to the u.s. virgin islands, their lawyer said saturday. steve esmond, his teenage sons and the teens' mother fell ill more than two weeks ago in st. john, where they were renting a villa at the sirenusa resort. the family was airlifted to hospitals in the united states.
( cnn ) at first police in marana, arizona, thought the shoplifted gun mario valencia held as he walked through a busy office park was locked and unable to fire. the cable through the lever and trigger couldn't be taken off, an officer was told by an employee of the walmart where valencia took the gun and some rounds of ammunition. but just 10 seconds after the worker told police that.. a shot.
( cnn ) hockey player jarret stoll of the l.a. kings was arrested friday at the swimming pool of a las vegas resort on a drug-possession charge, cnn affiliate ksnv reported, citing a police spokesman. stoll, 32, was charged with possession of controlled substances, including cocaine and ecstasy, according to ksnv. '' the canadian player is a center and has been with the kings since 2008.
a small group plays with rocks, replacements for the toys they left behind when they fled, while others clamber through a jagged tear in the wire fence surrounding the refugee camp. the shariya refugee camp opened around six months ago, made up of some 4,000 tents and counting. the vast majority of the camp's occupants are from the town of sinjar, which is near the border with syrian kurdistan, and fled the isis assault there back in august.
surkhet, nepal ( cnn ) ten years ago, with her high school diploma and a backpack, maggie doyne left her new jersey hometown to travel the world before college. she lived in a buddhist monastery, helped rebuild a sea wall in fiji, then went to india and worked with nepalese refugees. nominations are open for cnn heroes 2015.
( cnn ) espn suspended reporter britt mchenry for a week after a video of her berating a towing company employee surfaced thursday. the sports network announced her suspension on twitter. mchenry posted an apology on twitter, saying she allowed her emotions to get away from her during a stressful situation at a virginia business.
given the amount of questions and mystery surrounding the science behind it, dr. sanjay gupta wanted to provide some insight. he's been investigating medical marijuana for the last couple of years. his research has resulted in three cnn documentaries, culminating with ``weed 3 : the marijuana revolution,'' airing at 9 p.m. et/pt sunday.
( cnn ) it's obvious that tom brady's love for his wife, model gisele bundchen, will never go out of fashion. bundchen walked the runway for the last time wednesday, and the new england patriots quarterback wasn't just there to support her in person, he expressed his emotions to the world on facebook. ``congratulations love of my life,'' brady wrote.
desperate for a home in 2013, davion navar henry only dressed up in a suit and borrowed a bible from the boys home where he lived. then he headed to a st. petersburg, florida, church to make a plea for his own adoption. now 16 years old, he had lived his entire life in foster care, bouncing from one home to another.
( cnn ) more than 300 suspects have been arrested in south africa in connection with deadly attacks on foreigners that have forced thousands to flee, the government said sunday. '' thousands sought refuge in temporary shelters after mobs with machetes attacked immigrants in durban. the attacks in durban killed two immigrants and three south africans, including a 14-year-old boy, authorities said.
( cnn ) a group of six young minnesota men conspired to sneak into syria and join isis ``by any means necessary,'' federal prosecutors said monday. the group of friends, ages 19 to 21, were arrested sunday. ``they were not confused young men.
( cnn ) a freshly fallen tree in the roadway was jason warnock's first clue. warnock was driving through a canyon in lewiston, idaho, on wednesday when he saw the tree, then looked up to see an suv dangling over the edge of a cliff. the only thing holding the gmc yukon and its terrified driver from a 30-foot drop was a crumpled chain-link fence, still clinging to the earth above bryden canyon road.
moscow ( cnn ) joy womack is taking part in her first ballet class of the day at the kremlin ballet theatre, kicking her legs up to her head, jumping and spinning across the room. the dancer, raised in california and texas, left her parents and eight brothers and sisters behind when she arrived in russia six years ago, aged 15, speaking no russian. '' the dancer did not pursue a case against the bolshoi.
through a series of photos taken within a day, he captures what it's like to live inside one of the largest dumping grounds in india. the boragaon landfill is located in the city of guwahati, about 300 miles from bangladesh near the bhutanese border. it's 94 acres of mostly fresh waste, surrounded by swamplands.
the nigerian city is among african metropolises which have seen some of the highest growth in the number of millionaires on the continent. others include luanda, dar es salaam and accra, which is predicted to nearly double its millionaire count from 800 in 2012 to 1,500 in 2020. more from africa view.
a lawsuit filed this week alleges johns hopkins university and the rockefeller foundation helped conduct a similar study in guatemala from 1945 to 1956. orphans, inmates, psychiatric patients and prostitutes were deliberately infected with sexually transmitted diseases to determine what drugs, including penicillin, worked best in stopping the diseases, the lawsuit says. the subjects of the experiments weren't told they'd been infected, the lawsuit says, causing some to die and others to pass the disease to their spouses, sexual partners and children.
the force is back. at an emotional event in anaheim, california, director j.j. abrams and the ``star wars : episode vii -- the force awakens'' cast showed off for the audience and then capped the presentation with the trailer for the new film. the new ``star wars'' is due out december 18.
( cnn ) ``real housewives of beverly hills'' star and former child actress kim richards is accused of kicking a police officer after being arrested thursday morning. richards was taken into custody by police at the beverly hills hotel on accusations of trespassing, resisting arrest and public intoxication after security personnel complained that she was bothering hotel guests about 1:30 a.m. `real housewives of atlanta' cast member's mother dies. she has been released from custody.
( cnn ) two deputies involved in the fatal attempt to arrest eric harris in tulsa, oklahoma, have been reassigned because of threats against them and their families, sheriff stanley glanz said monday in a news conference. the deputies were trying to arrest harris when reserve deputy robert bates shot him. bates is charged with second-degree manslaughter in harris' death.
chancey allen luna was found guilty of first-degree murder friday for his role in the august 2013 drive-by shooting of christopher lane, a 23-year-old college student in duncan, about 80 miles south of oklahoma city. luna was 16 at the time of the shooting. because he was under 18 when the crime was committed, he is not eligible for the death penalty.
tokyo ( cnn ) a japanese court has issued a landmark injunction halting plans to restart two nuclear reactors in the west of the country, citing safety concerns, a court official told cnn. japan's nuclear watchdog, the nuclear regulation authority, had previously given a green light to the reopening of reactors 3 and 4 of the kansai electric power company's takahama nuclear plant. ``it's now in the courts.
( cnn ) the jailing of four blackwater security guards, eight years after they killed 17 iraqi civilians in a shooting in baghdad, is a positive step for justice -- but is also not enough. the kind of horror represented by the blackwater case and others like it -- from abu ghraib to the massacre at haditha to cia waterboarding -- may be largely absent from public memory in the west these days, but it is being used by the islamic state in iraq and syria ( isis ) to support its sectarian narrative. good governance is the most effective antidote to sectarianism.
but a new way to talk about climate change is emerging, which shifts focus from impersonal discussions about greenhouse gas emissions and power plants to a very personal one : your health. this new way of talking about climate change -- and linking it to public health issues -- was part of a roundtable discussion tuesday at howard university's college of medicine. president barack obama joined u.s. surgeon general dr. vivek murthy and epa administrator gina mccarthy for a roundtable discussion on the topic as part of national public health week.
on thursday's episode of ``somebody's got ta do it,'' rowe meets up with chad pregracke, the founder of living lands & waters, who does just that. his quota ? always ``more.
that's apparently what happened in tulsa, oklahoma, when a 73-year-old reserve deputy, robert bates, killed eric harris. bates said he meant to use his stun gun but ended up firing his handgun instead. in a well-publicized 2009 case, a bay area rapid transit police officer fired his gun instead of his taser, killing 22-year-old oscar grant in oakland, california.
( cnn ) oklahoma gov. mary fallin signed a bill on friday that would allow the state to perform executions with nitrogen gas if lethal injection is ruled unconstitutional or becomes unavailable. cnn affiliate kfor says it's never been used in an execution in the united states. fallin reaffirmed her support for the death penalty.
there's the traditional, time-tested way, where new doctors graduate from medical school and then pass a series of national exams while training for years as resident physicians. in 2011, florida enacted the firearm owners' privacy act, which threatens prosecution and loss of licensure for any physicians who dare ask their patients about gun ownership and gun safety. he is a plaintiff in the case.
the isis terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attack. the explosion killed at least 33 people and injured more than 100 others, public health spokesman najibullah kamawal said. the claim appears to be the first in afghanistan by isis, cnn's nick paton walsh said.
( cnn ) french customs officers say they have seized more than 2 tons of cocaine aboard a sailboat that was falsely flying an american flag in the caribbean. the drugs, whose value is estimated at more than $ 105 million, are the biggest cocaine seizure ever carried out by french authorities, said michael lachaux, director of customs operations in martinique. martinique is an overseas department of france.
( cnn ) recently, robert kennedy jr. was in sacramento, california, to campaign against senate bill 227, which makes it harder for parents to opt out of vaccinations. in his remarks at an anti-vaccination movie screening, he decided to compare ``vaccine-induced'' autism to the holocaust. '' autism is not a death sentence.
( cnn ) iraqi and u.s.-led coalition forces have successfully ousted isis from the nation's largest oil refinery, the coalition said sunday. iraqi security forces regained full control of the baiji refinery, the combined joint task force said. a week ago, isis claimed it controlled part of the facility, posting images online that purported to back up the claim.
( cnn ) a couple in their 20s, who led a youth ministry, and their baby boy were driving underneath a highway overpass in bonney lake, a seattle suburb, when other motorists heard the crackle of a pending collapse. concrete from a construction project crashed onto the family's car, killing josh and vanessa ellis and their 8-month-old son, hudson, authorities said. ``the damage was so severe it was impossible to tell how many victims were in the vehicle.
tokyo electric power company ( tepco ) deployed the second remote-controlled robot last week after the first one broke down. the robot detected lower radiation levels and temperature than expected, an indicator that cooling systems were working effectively, according to a statement released by tepco. tepco says the site's still too dangerous for workers to enter.
( cnn ) the american pharmacists association is discouraging its members from participating in executions. on monday, the group voted at its annual meeting to adopt a ban as an official policy, stating that ``such activities are fundamentally contrary to the role of pharmacists as healthcare providers. '' she says.
catania, italy ( cnn ) the boat that sank in the mediterranean over the weekend with hundreds of migrants on board may have capsized after being touched or swamped by a cargo ship that came to its aid, a u.n. official said. carlotta asami, a spokeswoman for the united nations' refugee agency, made the comments to cnn early tuesday after she and two of her colleagues had spoken to multiple survivors from the disaster who arrived in catania, italy. the account she offered differs from that provided by italian authorities on sunday.
moscow ( cnn ) a russian tv channel aired hillary clinton's first campaign video with a rating stamp that means it's for mature audiences, because of fears it might run afoul of the country's anti-gay propaganda law. a clip of the video, which features a gay couple holding hands, got the 18 + rating from the independent tv rain channel in russia on monday. '' clinton's video was released over the weekend to announce the start of her 2016 u.s. presidential campaign.
somalia-based islamist militant group al-shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack. group spokesman sheikh abdiaziz musab, speaking to pro-al-shabaab outlet andalus radio, said the blast targeted and killed several somali intelligence agents. among the dead, he said, was a boy who shined shoes.
and now a gallery in london has put a selection on display for the public. ``i wasn't intending to start a collection,'' she told cnn. ``humans want to collect and show to others,'' she says.
( cnn ) on october 31, 2014, the italian government announced the end of ``mare nostrum'' -- a naval mission that rescued would-be migrants in peril as they tried to cross the mediterranean to seek security and a new life in europe. in the operation's year-long existence, the italian navy and coastguard had rescued an estimated 100,000 people. italian prime minister matteo renzi has said the mediterranean is a sea, not a cemetery.
the immediate aftermath of the oil spill has been well documented, with declines in tourism and the seafood industry, as well as the significant destruction of wildlife in the region. since then, the amount of oil in the area has dissipated and communities have started to show signs of recovery. '' ).
( cnn ) north korea accused mexico of illegally holding one of its cargo ships wednesday and demanded the release of the vessel and crew. the ship, the mu du bong, was detained after it ran aground off the coast of mexico in july. cnn's jethro mullen contributed to this report.
boston ( cnn ) now the real boston marathon trial can begin. a federal jury's decision to convict dzhokhar tsarnaev of 30 charges related to the 2013 boston marathon bombings was the most anticlimactic of anticlimaxes. the 21-year-old's lawyers admitted from the beginning that their client had participated in the horrific terrorist attack, which both scarred and strengthened this city.
heather mack, 19, who gave birth to her own daughter just weeks ago, was found guilty with her 21-year-old boyfriend, tommy schaefer, of killing sheila von wiese-mack on the indonesian island last august. schaefer was sentenced to 18 years in prison for battering von wiese-mack to death in room 317 of the st. regis bali resort. schaefer had claimed he killed his girlfriend's mother in self-defense after a violent argument erupted over the young couple's relationship.
( cnn ) an asiana airlines plane overran a runway while landing at japan's hiroshima airport on tuesday evening, prompting the airport to temporarily close, the japanese transportation ministry said. twenty-three people had minor injuries after flight 162 landed at 8:05 p.m., according to fire department and ministry sources. there were 73 passengers and eight crew members -- including five cabin attendants, two pilots and a maintenance official -- aboard when the flight took off from south korea's incheon international airport at 6:34 p.m. local time, asiana said in a statement late tuesday.
( cnn ) madonna has a thing for making out with fellow performers on stage. first it was britney and christina, and now rapper drake has been on the receiving end of a little lip action from madge. while the blondes had fun with it, drake appeared less than enthused after madonna's prolonged smooch onstage at the coachella music festival in california on sunday.
sao paulo, brazil ( cnn ) brazilian supermodel gisele bundchen sashayed down the catwalk at sao paulo fashion week on wednesday night in an emotional farewell to the runway. bundchen announced over the weekend that she would be retiring from the catwalk, though not the fashion industry. the 34-year-old, who is married to new england patriots quarterback tom brady and has two children, has said she wants to spend more time with her family.
on april 19, 1995, the alfred r. murrah federal building in oklahoma city, oklahoma, was bombed by two disaffected young americans. one hundred sixty-eight people died in the terrorist attack, including 19 children. mchenry was suspended for a week.
( cnn ) mountaineers have returned to mount everest for this year's climbing season, resuming the quest to summit the world's highest peak after a deadly season last year. in 2014, the nepal climbing season ended after a piece of glacial ice fell, unleashing an avalanche that killed 16 nepalis who had just finished their morning prayers. the april 18 accident was the single deadliest incident to ever occur on mount everest.
boston ( cnn ) dzhokhar tsarnaev's bombs tore through their bodies : singeing flesh, shattering bones, shredding muscles and severing limbs. now that he has been found guilty on every count, the jury must decide whether boston marathon bomber tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done. '' ``krystle was the light of my life.
( cnn ) pope francis has accepted the resignation of bishop robert finn, who remained on the job for years after becoming the highest-ranking u.s. catholic official convicted in connection with the church's long-running sex abuse scandal, the vatican announced tuesday. finn, who led the diocese of kansas city-st. joseph, missouri, was found guilty in 2012 of failure to report suspected child abuse.
( cnn ) the much-discussed trailer for ``batman v. superman : dawn of justice'' just got a makeover. soon after the trailer went up late on friday, youtuber bobby burns got to work on doing his own version using classic superhero footage. cnn spoke to 18-year-old burns about what motivated him to make his now-viral video.
``the americans,'' 10 p.m. et wednesday, fx. season 3 has seen a battle for the soul of daughter paige, the return of fan favorite margo martindale and soviet agent nina getting back in the game. the finale is titled ``march 8, 1983.
( cnn ) how will the new ``fantastic four'' differ from the original movie of a decade ago ? for starters, as a new trailer shows, sue and johnny storm's father initiates the project that ends up giving the foursome their powers. ).
( billboard ) considering the academy of country music awards celebrated its 50th anniversary on sunday night at the dallas cowboys stadium, it was bound to be bigger than any previous year's acms. plus, as hosts blake shelton and luke bryan were quick to point out, everything is bigger in texas. the best.
it's easy to talk of such spirit when paul mccartney is there to honor ringo starr, and yoko ono is on hand as well. speaking briefly backstage, ono expressed feeling that it was wonderful for starr to be honored, ``just sad john and george aren't here,'' referring to her late husband john lennon and beatles guitarist and fellow songwriter george harrison. john mayer hailed his longtime idol, the late vaughan, in a heartfelt speech.
( the hollywood reporter ) the author of a 2006 novel has accused the ``avengers'' director and ``cabin'' director drew goddard of stealing his idea. whedon produced and co-wrote the script for cabin with director drew goddard, a writer on whedon's ``buffy the vampire slayer'' and a fanboy favorite in his own right, with credits that include netflix's ``daredevil'' ( and reportedly may soon include sony's upcoming spider-man projects ). '' he's suing for copyright infringement and wants $ 10 million in damages.
according to ew, new line cinema is planning a mariah carey christmas movie. producer jonathan shestack confirmed that he is working on the yet-untitled project with carey's good friend director brett ratner co-producing. it's the jam !
( cnn ) olivia wilde and garrett hedlund are set to return for disney's ``tron 3. '' the pair will reprise their characters from 2010's ``tron : legacy'' in the sequel, which is being directed by joseph kosinski. justin springer will be involved as a producer.
( cnn ) the arrest and death of freddie gray in baltimore has stoked protests and accusations of police brutality. but it's unclear how gray, arrested on a weapons charge april 12, suffered a severe spinal cord injury that led to his death seven days later. he ``gave up without the use of force,'' according to baltimore deputy police commissioner jerry rodriguez.
( cnn ) washington. the vatican says pope francis may add another leg to his trip to the united states this september, visiting cuba just months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two nations. in response to reporters' questions, vatican spokesman the rev. federico lombardi said in a statement, ``the holy father has taken into consideration the idea of making a stop in cuba'' on his way to or from the united states this september.
the deep reddish color caught seattle native tim durkan's eye. the stunning sunsets were the result of raging wildfires in parts of siberia. the fires were started in southeastern siberia, by farmers burning grass in their fields.
to assuage any fears, we asked john swartzberg, m.d., a clinical professor at the university of california at berkeley, to walk us through the process of determining if our favorite dip was still safe to eat. related : amy's kitchen recalls more than 70,000 cases of food due to fear of listeria contamination. ``listeria survives well at cool temperatures,'' he said.
dallas mavericks owner mark cuban advised twitterers to have their blood tested for everything available -- and to do so every three months. following her mother's cancer diagnosis, singer taylor swift urged her fans to remind their parents to get screening tests. and arizona gov. doug ducey signed legislation to allow arizonans to get any lab test without a doctor's order.
that's what happened to cyclist wang pingan as he neared the end of a two-wheel trek that covered thousands of miles through every major province in the vast country, according to local media. arriving in the southern city of shenzhen, in southern guandong province, wang locked up his trusty mountain bike, loaded with panniers, to check out electronics markets in the city's huaqiangbei area. .
( cnn ) saudi arabia has executed a second indonesian maid despite protests from jakarta, which is itself facing fierce criticism for its failure to heed calls for clemency for a number of foreigners on death row. the indonesian government summoned the saudi ambassador to the foreign ministry on thursday after learning that 37-year-old karni bt. karni was sentenced to death in march 2013 for killing her employer's four-year-old child.
( cnn ) australian prime minister tony abbott has been caught on camera guzzling a glass of beer in seven seconds amid raucous cheers from onlookers. and observers were quick to point out that abbott had previously criticized binge drinking in australia. abbott was in a sydney pub on saturday evening when a group of australian rules football players invited him to have a drink with them.
( cnn ) three british citizens arrested in the united arab emirates after they were found plane spotting near fujairah airport are to be released monday, their lawyer, nasser al-hashem, tells cnn. the three have been in jail since february 22. no charges were filed, there will be no travel ban, and the men will not face deportation, he said.
( cnn ) suspected boko haram militants this week attacked civilians inside cameroon for the first time in a month, killing at least 16 villagers, a military spokesman told cnn saturday. six attackers were killed by cameroonian forces, said maj. nlate eballe, an operations officer with a special military unit set up to fight boko haram. dia is a village that borders lake chad and has been identified as a recruiting ground for boko haram.
nairobi ( cnn ) an elite police commando unit waited hours for transport from nairobi, kenya, to garissa, where al-shabaab terrorists had taken over a university on april 2, according to one of the commandos who participated in the response operation. al-shabaab slaughtered 147 people at the school. of the fatalities, 142 were students at the university, and the rest were security forces and campus security.
one that pope francis once owned just sold for $ 30,500, according to castells, an auction house in uruguay. the apple tablet had all the personal touches. the proceeds will go to a school in montevideo, uruguay.
london ( cnn ) a polish prince has challenged populist british politician nigel farage to a duel in london's hyde park over his immigration policy. farage, the leader of the uk independence party ( ukip ), complains that britain's membership of the european union means it is powerless to stop a flow of foreign immigrants, many from impoverished eastern europe, into his ``small island'' nation. '' ukip wants britain to leave the european union.
there are nearly 5,000 ``gems'' scattered across the country, ranging from museums to archaeological areas and monuments. italy boasts the highest number of unesco world heritage sites in the world -- 50, several of which risk crumbling to the ground due to neglect and lack of public resources. crowdfunding has already saved bologna's san luca portico.
now, copenhagen residents can live in a new neighborhood set to emerge on the historic grounds of the famous beer-maker in the heart of danish capital. the area in question -- aptly named carlsberg city -- has been home to the famous carlsberg brewery since 1847, and with it a big slice of danish cultural history. but the brewery has moved on and the future is moving in.
what started as a nonthreatening and seemingly shrinking grass fire on sunday, consuming fewer than 100 acres according to miami-dade fire rescue battalion chief al cruz, grew to be more than 10 times that within the next 24 hours. by monday night, the fire had burned nearly 2,000 acres and was 50 % contained, the fire department said. several fire units and a helicopter with the capacity to drop 400 gallons of water at a time were battling the blaze, cruz said.
( cnn ) at least 21 people were killed during a shipwreck off the northern coast of haiti, the country's civil protection directorate told cnn on thursday. a small boat carrying about 50 migrants left from the area of le borgne, west of cap-haitien, on wednesday night. the vessel hit a reef and sank as it tried to return to shore near le borgne.
the lack of humidity provides optimal conditions to watch the sky and study the origins of the universe. ``it is pure visual silence,'' said photographer andres figueroa. the festivals ``are a form of social protection,'' figueroa said.
' continues to climb. to keep up with demand, the book's first printing was increased from 500,000 to 1 million copies, barbara marcus, president and publisher of random house children's books, said in a news release monday. '' in 1990.
as the boston marathon runners begin and, hopefully, finish their exhausting run monday, the lingering memories of the 2013 marathon blasts will be seen and felt in all sorts of ways. with the luxury of some time and healing, the city has moved on. on tuesday, the trial's sentencing phase will begin, determining whether he will receive the death penalty.
watch the volume as o'malley uses youtube to test clinton pokes. slowly but clearly, former maryland gov. martin o'malley is intensifying his criticism of overwhelming democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton. cnn's jeff zeleny says o'malley enjoys using youtube videos as a quick way to spread his opinion -- and question moves by clinton, like her reversal on the question of whether she supports allowing undocumented workers to obtain driver's licenses.
( cnn ) the parents of the youngest victim of the boston marathon bombings are making an emotional, passionate plea to take the death penalty off the table for the man convicted in the case. last week, dzhokhar tsarnaev was found guilty on all 30 charges he faced related to the bombings at the 2013 race and the dramatic violence that dragged out for days afterward. it is expected to last four weeks.
hong kong ( cnn ) phil rudd, the drummer for legendary hard rock band ac/dc, has pleaded guilty to charges of threatening to kill and possession of drugs in a new zealand court. rudd, who previously denied all allegations, made a surprise guilty plea tuesday before the trial began. the 60-year-old australian was arrested in november last year after police found methamphetamine and cannabis while executing a search warrant at his home in new zealand.
' we're playing checkers on the middle east game board and tehran's playing three-dimensional chess. iran isn't 10 feet tall in this region, but by making the nuclear issue the be-all and end-all that is supposed to reduce iran's power, the united states is only making tehran taller. the u.s.-iranian relationship is not symmetrical.
yet for decades, many have stood by the belief that such programs, known as syringe exchange or syringe services programs, promote and encourage drug use. indeed, for congress, it became the rationale behind a ban implemented in 1988 that prohibits the use of federal funds for these programs. as a result of the recent spikes in hiv and hepatitis c infections among injecting drug users in rural indiana and kentucky, the controversial topic of syringe exchange programs has come to the fore again.
( cnn ) erika langhart had a zest for life. in phoenix, karen langhart was looking forward to her daughter coming home for thanksgiving when she received a call from erika's cell phone. '' with groceries in hand, erika's boyfriend, sean coakley, had arrived at her apartment to make dinner and found erika collapsed on the floor.
scientists found the species on the caribbean slopes of costa rica. the last time a new glassfrog was found in costa rica was back in 1973, according to the costa rican amphibian research center. ``costa rica is known to have 14 glassfrogs inhabiting its tiny national territory !
( cnn ) three orthodox rabbis accused of planning and participating in the torture of jewish men who refused to divorce their wives were convicted tuesday of conspiring to commit kidnapping. rabbis mendel epstein, 69 ; jay goldstein, 60 ; and binyamin stimler, 39, were found guilty on one count of conspiracy to commit kidnapping in new jersey federal court. goldstein and stimler were also convicted on charges of attempted kidnapping.
( cnn ) if one is to believe lawyers for aaron hernandez, the former new england patriots star had no conceivable reason to kill a man who was his friend, his future brother-in-law and a reliable purveyor of the marijuana he chain-smoked. the jury in the high-profile trial resumed deliberations wednesday after deliberating about an hour-and-a-half on tuesday. why would hernandez leave a marijuana blunt he shared with the victim at the murder scene ?
( cnn ) james best, best known for his portrayal of bumbling sheriff rosco p. coltrane on tv's ``the dukes of hazzard,'' died monday after a brief illness. he was 88. best died in hospice in hickory, north carolina, of complications from pneumonia, said steve latshaw, a longtime friend and hollywood colleague.
( cnn ) seven people -- including illinois state university associate men's basketball coach torrey ward and deputy athletic director aaron leetch -- died when their small plane crashed while heading back from the ncaa tournament final. the aircraft went down overnight monday about 2 miles east of the central illinois regional airport in bloomington, mclean county sheriff's office sgt. bill tate said. ``the isu community is reeling from the loss,'' twork said.
the bronze figure of comedian and area native lucille ball has elicited comparisons to a ``walking dead'' zombie and inspired the facebook campaign ``we love lucy ! get rid of this statue. '' the sculpture, a gift to the town from its original owners, has been on display since 2009.
( cnn ) when al-shabaab gunmen slaughtered 147 people at a college campus in garissa, kenya, on thursday, it was the bloodiest blow islamist extremists have dealt to the country since the 1998 bombing of the u.s. embassy in nairobi. but it was also yet another pave stone in the long path of violence between kenya and the somali militants. to understand thursday's attack, one must understand this : kenya and al-shabaab are at war.
sanaa, yemen ( cnn ) al qaeda fighters attacked a prison in the coastal yemeni city of al mukallah early thursday, freeing at least 270 prisoners, a third of whom have al qaeda links, a senior defense ministry official has told cnn. khaled batarfi, a senior al qaeda figure, was among the escapees, officials said. but little is simple in the middle east.
( cnn ) the force is strong in turkey -- or at least it appears to be at one university where thousands of students are petitioning for a jedi temple to be built on campus. the petition, which was started by a student at dokuz eylul university in the western province of izmir, so far has almost 5,500 signatures. ``there are less and less jedi left on the earth,'' the petition says.
frances -- the daughter of nirvana singer-guitarist kurt cobain and an executive producer of the new hbo documentary on his life, ``kurt cobain : montage of heck'' -- was ``a 15-year-old goth kid, so stoked,'' she recalls with a laugh during a recent interview for the cover story in our new issue. ). ``tropic of cancer'' is one of my favorite books.
( cnn ) unicef said friday that an initial shipment of 16 tons of medical supplies, meant to help 80,000 innocents caught up in the havoc of yemen, had at last landed in yemen's capital, sanaa. the conflict is exacting a heavy toll on children and families, unicef said in a statement. ``last year, 246 lives were reported lost in sea crossings to yemen.
( cnn ) canadian fighter jets have carried out their first airstrike against isis in syria, hitting one of the sunni militant group's garrisons. the cf-18 hornets bombed near isis' de facto capital of raqqa, canada's department of national defence said wednesday. canadian warplanes have conducted dozens of strikes against isis targets in iraq since november.
( cnn ) officer michael slager's five-year career with the north charleston police department in south carolina ended after he resorted to deadly force following a routine traffic stop. slager, 33, has been fired, officials said wednesday. his wife is eight months' pregnant and the city will continue paying for her medical insurance until the baby is born, north charleston mayor keith summey told reporters.
( cnn ) about a quarter of a million australian homes and businesses have no power after a ``once in a decade'' storm battered sydney and nearby areas. about 4,500 people have been isolated by flood waters as ``the roads are cut off and we won't be able to reach them for a few days,'' michael langley, spokesman for the new south wales state emergency service said. the powerful storm has already claimed four lives, according to new south wales police.
( cnn ) a sexual harassment complaint has been filed against new zealand prime minister john key after a waitress complained about him repeatedly pulling her ponytail at an auckland cafe. cnn affiliate tvnz reported that the complaint was filed thursday morning by graham mccready, an accountant described in the new zealand press as a ``serial litigant,'' who has previously launched private prosecutions against key. mccready's complaint claimed that key had breached a section of the country's human rights act relating to sexual harassment, tvnz reported.
his dad, justin, needs a kidney transplant. about a week ago, laney griner, justin's wife and sammy's mother, created a gofundme campaign with a goal of $ 75,000 to help cover the medical expenses that go along with a kidney transplant. the campaign is already a success.
( cnn ) five young men were arrested saturday in melbourne, australia, in what police called a major counterterrorism operation. three of the teens, all of them either 18 or 19, have since been released ``pending further enquiries,'' australia's federal police said, but two remain in custody. sevdet besim, 18, has been charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist act, and was denied bail saturday.
( cnn ) did former new england patriot aaron hernandez kill odin lloyd, a man who was dating the sister of hernandez's fiancee and might have become his future brother-in-law ? hernandez has pleaded not guilty to murder and two weapons charges, setting the stage for his trial in fall river, massachusetts, that began in january. he's accused of orchestrating the shooting death of lloyd.
it's something that my husband and i just do -- we show respect to everyone from a taxi driver to a teacher to the president of the united states. in those cases, when i feel like i'm going to pop, i keep saying, ``this is unacceptable, this is unacceptable,'' and either hang up in disgust or storm off. it's a free world.
taubman, a real estate developer who helped change the face of suburban life by popularizing upscale indoor shopping malls, died friday at the age of 91. the announcement was made by his son, robert taubman, the chairman, president and chief executive officer of taubman centers inc., the company his father founded 65 years ago. ``i wanted to build.
some scientists are saying ``the blob'' could be playing a factor. a university of washington climate scientist and his associates have been studying the blob -- a huge area of unusually warm water in the pacific -- for months. one is in the bering sea and the other is off the coast of southern california.
( cnn ) it lays claim to being the most isolated human settlement on earth, a volcanic archipelago in the south atlantic ocean, home to just under 270 people. now, the tiny settlement of tristan da cunha is seeking the help of architects and designers the world over to secure its future well into the 21st century. there are also a handful of expatriate brits.
( cnn ) arizona investigators have released dramatic video of a walmart parking lot brawl that left a police officer wounded, one man dead, and reportedly involved members of a christian family band. enoch gaver, 21, was killed in the fight in the town of cottonwood, and suspect david gaver, 28, was shot in the stomach and taken into custody. police sergeant jeremy daniels was hit in the leg by a bullet fired during the melee.
the issue of whether to call the killings a genocide is emotional, both for armenians, who are descended from those killed, and for turks, the heirs to the ottomans. in addition, some turkish leaders fear that acknowledgment of a genocide could lead to demands for huge reparations. friday is the 100th anniversary of that day.
( cnn ) larry upright died just one day after hillary clinton announced she was running for president. upright, a staunch republican, died monday at a north carolina hospital. '' daughter jill mclain said it was natural to put that line in her father's tribute.
new york ( cnn ) wall street is more than ready for hillary clinton. the former secretary of state confirmed on sunday what the political world has expected for months -- eight years after her first failed white house bid, clinton will once again seek the democratic party's nomination for president. clinton, 67, has long enjoyed a close relationship with the financial industry.
( cnn ) mercedes driver and f1 championship leader lewis hamilton stole pole position for sunday's chinese grand prix from teammate and fierce rival nico rosberg in dramatic fashion. hamilton took first place on the front row on the last lap, beating rosberg by a slim four hundredths of a second margin. frenemies.
on april 17, 1975 -- 40 years ago today -- life as ly knew it was shattered when her hometown, the cambodian capital of phnom penh, fell to the genocidal khmer rouge regime of the communist party of kampuchea. ly, then 13, was separated from her mother and two of her sisters who, along with virtually the entire population of phnom penh -- about two million people -- were sent on a forced march into the countryside to work. it's bo.
motivations among the tens of thousands making the trek to the mediterranean coast are as many and varied as the nationalities involved, according to researchers and human rights groups. but in 2014 more than 80 % of them headed for the libyan coast as the easiest point of embarkation. one african migrant reported surviving on toothpaste for days.
( cnn ) a 24-year-old man is in custody after he called for an ambulance, only to have french authorities come and discover weapons, ammunition and evidence of his plans to target churches -- an attack that someone in syria requested, a top prosecutor said wednesday. the man was identified later as sid ahmed ghlam, french interior minister bernard cazeneuve told television broadcaster tf1. but authorities found more than a man with a gunshot wound in his thigh.
her husband, philippe braham, was one of 17 people killed in january's terror attacks in paris. he was in a kosher supermarket when a gunman stormed in, killing four people, all of them jewish. ``in israel.
mohammed abu khdeir's name appeared this week on the wall at jerusalem's mount herzl, the site of the national cemetery, as the nation prepared to mark its memorial day on wednesday. abu khdeir, 16, was beaten and burned alive by three israelis in july, according to prosecutors. but abu khdeir's family objected to his inclusion on the memorial wall.
' actress penelope cruz will appear in the upcoming sequel to the popular 2001 film, ben stiller announced friday. stiller and owen wilson, who plays so-hot-right-now model ``hansel'' made a surprise appearance at paris fashion week to promote the film. it is scheduled for release in february 2016.
( cnn ) a saudi-led coalition tuesday ended its ``operation decisive storm'' -- its nearly monthlong airstrike campaign in yemen -- and a new initiative is underway. ``operation renewal of hope'' will focus on the political process. saudi arabia had launched airstrikes on houthi positions across yemen, hoping to wipe out the iranian-allied rebel group that has overthrown the government and seized power.
( cnn ) he was known as the american mouthpiece of al qaeda, speaking against his native country on behalf of a terrorist organization that's devoted blood and resources to attacking it. the white house announced thursday that adam gadahn, 36, was killed in january in a u.s. government counterterrorism operation. neither he nor ahmed farouq -- another u.s. citizen and al qaeda operative who died in what the white house said was ``likely a separate'' operation -- was specifically targeted, according to the statement.
seoul, south korea ( cnn ) on march 20, 2013, a cyberattack brought chaos to several banks and media outlets in south korea. then more ominously on december 23 last year, computers at the country's nuclear operator were breached. and south korean investigators say they have proof -- the actual malicious codes used in the attacks.
hillary clinton, who announced last week, even jumped into her black van for a road trip out to iowa, including a pit stop at chipotle along the way. trying to separate himself from the pack, new jersey gov. chris christie called for substantial cuts to social security. he also promised to reverse the marijuana legalization laws that many states have been enacting in response to ballot initiatives.
no one is sure, but the headstone of hillary clinton's father, hugh rodham, was found tipped over this week, just a couple of days after she announced her run for the white house. '' mcgloin said he's tended to the grave site at the washburn street cemetery in scranton, pennsylvania, since rodham was buried there in 1993. funeral director neil regan also said vandalism is the most-likely cause, not the weather.
kevin cave caught the incident on video that he posted on his reddit page. it has already been viewed more than 1 million times. '' he said he overheard a couple of zookeepers say the gorillas had been fighting with one another.
he pulled back the stroller's cover and saw that his son, leo, 3, was conscious but bleeding from the left side of his head. '' that was before he noticed his achilles tendon, which resembled transparent tape covered in blood, and his left tibia protruding from his boot. the defense, led by famed death penalty opponent judy clarke, is expected to try to soften that portrayal by calling witnesses to explain tsarnaev's difficult upbringing.
an economic powerhouse conservatively valued at $ 24 trillion, one that annually churns out the equivalent of $ 2.5 trillion, is under assault. however, i am not referring to one of the g8 economies, but to the ``super economy'' of the ocean. the health and wealth of the ocean are assessed in a wwf report released thursday, reviving the ocean economy.
tehran and riyadh each point to the other as the main reason for much of the turmoil in the middle east. for tehran and its regional allies -- including the houthi movement in yemen -- saudi arabia's actions are in defense of a retrogressive status quo order that is no longer tenable. when iranian president hassan rouhani was elected in june 2013, he pledged to reach out to riyadh.
a surge of refugees this year, usually transported by smugglers on overcrowded vessels, has sought to reach europe via the libyan coast. a boatload of 900 migrants who embarked from libya are now feared dead in the latest sinking. over 10,000 were rescued off the coast of italy in the last week alone.
( cnn ) the united states is failing its partners. the 2015 national security strategy speaks to the importance of american-led partnerships, while the 2014 quadrennial defense review noted that we ``will rebalance our counterterrorism efforts toward greater emphasis on building partnership capacity. just look at the case of kenya.
``he was in so much debt,'' 25-year-old yogita said of her late husband. '' it's a familiar story in families across western india's cotton production belt, where, a cotton lobbyist group claims, one cotton farmer commits suicide every eight hours. vidarbha, in the eastern region of the state of maharashtra, is known as the epicenter of the suicide crisis.
( cnn ) a skywest airlines flight made an emergency landing in buffalo, new york, on wednesday after a passenger lost consciousness, officials said. the passenger received medical attention before being released, according to marissa snow, spokeswoman for skywest. the plane descended 28,000 feet in three minutes.
( cnn ) cigarettes have been put out across the bars of new orleans. cigars are welcome no more. the new orleans city council passed its ban against smoking in most places across the city -- including bars, casinos and restaurants -- in january, and the vote was unanimous, the new orleans times-picayune reports.
( cnn ) the indonesian government has ordered preparations for the execution of 10 inmates on death row, including filipino maid mary jane veloso and australians andrew chan and myuran sukumaran. but he said, ``the time is approaching. she is innocent.
( cnn ) five years ago, rebecca francis posed for a photo while lying next to a dead giraffe. the trouble started monday, when comedian ricky gervais tweeted the photo with a question. a number of people insulted and threatened francis in response to the giraffe photo and others featuring her.
atlanta ( cnn ) federal marshals have arrested scott kelley, a fugitive accused of kidnapping who was featured on cnn's ``the hunt. '' kelley, 50, was taken into custody at the atlanta airport wednesday after arriving on a flight from costa rica, deputy u.s. marshal jamie berry said. kelley has been wanted since 2004, accused of noncustodial kidnapping and unlawful flight to avoid prosecution.
the whale, named varvara, swam nearly 14,000 miles ( 22,500 kilometers ), according to a release from oregon state university, whose scientists helped conduct the whale-tracking study. varvara, which is russian for ``barbara,'' left her primary feeding ground off russia's sakhalin island to cross the pacific ocean and down the west coast of the united states to baja, mexico. fourth baby orca born this season.
( cnn ) prison life won't be pretty for aaron hernandez, the former nfl player and convicted murderer sentenced to life without parole. after correction officers evaluate him, he will be shipped to massachusetts' flagship maximum-security prison, one of the most high-tech jails in the united states with no history of breakouts : the souza-baranowski correctional center in shirley, about 40 miles outside downtown boston. legal advocates for inmates describe souza as sterile and violent at once.
boston ( cnn ) adrianne haslet-davis and her husband, adam davis, were standing near the finish line on the day of the boston marathon bombing. her feet were sore from wearing 4.5-inch heels. the jury must decide whether bomber dzhokhar tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done.
beijing ( cnn ) chinese police on monday released five female activists who were detained last month, family and friends of the women tell cnn. wei tingting, wang man, zheng churan, li tingting and wu rongrong were freed. the women will be under police surveillance for a year and have their movements and activities restricted, attorney liang xiaojun said.
nuclear is our largest source of carbon-free energy, generating over 60 % of our carbon-free electricity. surely president barack obama's climate plan, allegedly aimed at reducing the united states' overall carbon emissions, would revitalize the nuclear industry, lead to increased plant construction and help meet aggressive carbon reduction targets. well, think again.
in about five years, so many young americans will be grossly overweight that the military will be unable to recruit enough qualified soldiers. that alarming forecast comes from maj, gen. allen batschelet, who is in charge of u.s. army recruiting command. obesity, he told me, ``is becoming a national security issue.
after all, the organization is dedicated to enhancing girls' character and confidence. thin mints, the most popular cookie, contains refined white flour, sugar, partially hydrogenated oil, and high fructose corn syrup. there are two other more insidious and dangerous risks to consider : cancer and heart disease.
( cnn ) espn's britt mchenry this week found herself in the news, rather than reporting on it, after a video surfaced showing her berating and belittling an employee of a tow company in arlington, virginia. '' espn, meanwhile, announced that mchenry would be suspended for a week. how britt mchenry could have responded.
( cnn ) it won't come as news to anyone in america today that the authority to make an arrest carries with it the potential to escalate to lethal force. in south carolina earlier this month, walter scott was the subject of a bench warrant for over $ 18,000 in unpaid child support, according to court records. but failure to pay child support is not a crime.
according to one female businesswoman in texas, hillary clinton shouldn't be president because her hormones might make her so irrational she'll start an unnecessary war. when george w. bush waged an unnecessary war in iraq -- was his testosterone to blame ? studies show that women leaders take fewer unnecessary risks than their male counterparts.
( cnn ) u.s. president barack obama's recent explanation of how his administration will engage with the middle east is far from reassuring to the region. in his interview with tom friedman from the new york times on april 4, obama explained u.s. foreign policy moves on iran and cuba, which friedman described as the ``obama doctrine. implementing the core u.s. interests outlined by obama in the interview is clearly not working.
( cnn ) robert bates, 73, shot and killed a man while playing cops and robbers with real police. he was holding his gun. he fired one shot and killed harris.
( cnn ) it's clear from hillary clinton's campaign rollout -- a video announcement/campaign ad/short film that debuted sunday afternoon -- that she will make women and being a woman central to her outreach. twenty of them are women. there are three separate mentions of motherhood.
with his youthful energy and hispanic roots, it's tempting to see rubio as the new blood that the gop needs in order to compete against hillary clinton in 2016. yet rubio has been his own worst enemy on what could have been his two signature issues : immigration reform and cuba relations. back in 2013, rubio was a member of the senate ``gang of 8'' that crafted a bipartisan proposal for comprehensive reform, including a path to citizenship for the nation's estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants.
' early thursday he committed suicide, his sister madylin sweeten said in a statement. he was 19. sawyer sweeten was born in may 1995 in brownwood, texas.
( cnn ) the nfl draft begins on april 30, and while the tampa bay buccaneers are on the clock with the no. 1 overall pick, the clock is still ticking for another team -- the new england patriots -- as they await the results of the ``deflategate'' investigation, which has already lasted more than three months. in january, the nfl launched an investigation into the patriots to determine why 11 of the 12 game balls they provided for the afc championship game were underinflated. the league hired attorney ted wells -- who also investigated the miami dolphins bullying scandal -- to run the investigation.
london ( cnn ) police said thursday that there was no sign of forced entry to a building in a spectacular holiday weekend heist of safe deposit boxes in the heart of london's jewelry district. detective chief inspector paul johnson of the london metropolitan police flying squad said the thieves appeared to have gained access to the vault of hatton garden safe deposit ltd through the shaft of an elevator that is used by several businesses in the building. johnson said he had no figure for the value of what was stolen.
london ( cnn ) british police investigating a spectacular heist in the heart of london's jewelry district said friday they knew a burglar alarm went off but didn't respond. southern monitoring alarm company called the metropolitan police service, also known as scotland yard, at 12:21 a.m. april 3 to report that the burglar alarm had been activated at hatton garden safe deposit ltd., mps said in a prepared statement. ``the call was recorded and transferred to the police's cad ( computer-aided dispatch ) system,'' the statement said.
the 42-year-old actress and star of the hit tv sitcom ``modern family'' split from businessman nick loeb in may 2014. loeb is suing the colombian-born actress in los angeles to prevent vergara from destroying their two embryos conceived through in vitro fertilization in november 2013, according to published reports by new york daily news and in touch magazine. he believes that ``life begins at fertilization,'' he said.
( cnn ) on april 20, 2010, a final cement seal of an oil well in the gulf of mexico failed, causing what has been called the worst environmental disaster in u.s. history and taking the lives of 11 rig workers. for 87 straight days, oil and methane gas spewed from an uncapped wellhead, 1 mile below the surface of the ocean. a judge ruled bp was responsible for the release of 3.1 million barrels.
garissa, kenya ( cnn ) kenyan police have arrested five suspects in connection with thursday's attack at garissa university college, interior minister joseph nkaissery said friday, according to cnn affiliate ntv. thursday's attack by al-shabaab militants killed 147 people, including 142 students, three security officers and two university security personnel. the attack left 104 people injured, including 19 who are in critical condition, nkaissery said.
rome ( cnn ) italian authorities said they had launched a ``vast anti-terrorism operation'' friday, going after suspects associated with al qaeda who had discussed a range of targets, including the vatican. some members of the terrorist cell had direct contact with al qaeda leader osama bin laden before his death in pakistan in 2011, wiretaps showed, italy's state-run ansa news agency reported. some evidence indicated the vatican was among the targets considered, police said.
( cnn ) a dress worn by vivien leigh as she played scarlett o'hara in ``gone with the wind'' has fetched $ 137,000 at an auction. the outfit, a gray two-piece ensemble, was sold at an auction in beverly hills, california, on saturday, according to heritage auctions. it was the most sought after item among roughly 150 pieces of ``gone with the wind'' memorabilia on sale in the auction.
in zaria, a city in northern nigeria, a team of students from the ahmadu bello university are currently applying the final touches to the ``abucar 2. '' the students used locally available materials to build the vehicle, and even included recycled electrical components in the engine. it's the model that toyota uses in the prius.
these days, his mara group spans over 20 countries and he's been called ``africa's youngest billionaire. '' in late 2013 thakkar joined forces with the former boss of barclays bank -- bob diamond -- to start an investment fund focused on africa called atlas mara. the powerful duo raised $ 325 million through a share flotation - well above the $ 250 million target.
sao paulo, brazil ( cnn ) brazilian police have arrested the treasurer of the ruling workers' party, bringing the bribery investigation at the state-run oil company petrobras a step closer to president dilma rousseff. federal police arrested joao vaccari neto at his home in sao paulo on wednesday morning. vaccari faces charges of corruption and money laundering as part of the broader probe into corruption at petrobras.
hillary clinton's online declaration for president means the focus will now shift to the campaign and to what kind of president she might be. and nowhere will the speculation be greater than in the area of foreign policy, certain to be a major issue in the upcoming campaign. should she win, clinton will add to her potential ``firsts'' : first woman president ; the first president who had been a first lady.
washington ( cnn ) decision time for gop operatives, another controversial foreign policy choice for president obama, a ripple effect from the robert menendez indictment, and two insights into hillary clinton's campaign launch -- those stories filled our sunday trip around the ``inside politics'' table. obama's iran diplomacy already has his conservative critics fired up, and things could get even more interesting in the week ahead. '' hillary clinton has leased her headquarters space in brooklyn and will soon make her presidential campaign official.
' about 23 1/2 inches ( 60 centimeters ) of ash fell in some places, according to the ministry of interior and public safety. authorities issued a red alert for the towns of puerto montt and puerto varas in southern chile. both are popular tourist destinations.
( cnn ) most companies in south korea have hoesik at least once a month and sometimes every week. in practice, it means official eating/drinking fests involving multiple rounds of alcohol at multiple venues. drinking etiquette is the first thing you teach foreign guests,'' says bryan do, a korean-american director at the south korean branch of a u.s. company.
( cnn ) indiana gov. mike pence issued an executive order monday to extend a public health emergency in his state in response to a rampant hiv outbreak that first began in mid-december. as of tuesday, there were 135 cases -- 129 confirmed, and six preliminary -- of hiv. the increase has been linked to injection drug use, primarily of the prescription opioid opana.
a ) being a global leader in innovation, job creation, education, social mobility, literacy and child health. but the unfortunate reality is that the united states leads the world in incarceration, not education. and nearly three fourths of this population is comprised of nonviolent offenders.
new york ( cnn ) jake tapper is the next anchor of cnn's sunday morning political interview program ``state of the union. '' cnn announced tapper's promotion on friday morning. he will take over the program in june ; he'll remain the channel's chief washington correspondent and the anchor of the weekday afternoon newscast ``the lead.
sanaa, yemen ( cnn ) saudi airstrikes over yemen have resumed once again, two days after saudi arabia announced the end of its air campaign. the airstrikes thursday targeted rebel houthi militant positions in three parts of sanaa, two yemeni defense ministry officials said. they said saudi airstrikes were also targeting houthi positions in lahj province.
' the frantic 911 call came just as the alaska airlines flight had taken off from seattle-tacoma international airport on monday afternoon. the caller was a ramp agent who fell asleep in the plane's cargo hold. ``the menzies employee has been permanently banned from working on alaska airlines planes,'' said bobbie egan, a spokeswoman for the airline.
( cnn ) the united states is urging china to release five young feminists who face years in prison over their campaign for gender equality. authorities detained the women in three cities -- beijing, guangzhou and hangzhou -- a few days ahead of events planned for international women's day on march 8. '' on international women's day.
with her video, new logo and road trip, she opened a long communications campaign not only to ``rebrand'' herself but to completely reframe who she is, what she stands for and how she intends to run. '' jon stewart lampooned it as a ``state farm commercial gone viral'' and also ``boring as s --. take hillary's road trip to iowa in the van nicknamed scooby.
' for climate change ``next year'' is now. this year is the time and the united nations' international climate negotiations in paris in december are the place to secure strong global agreement to curb heat-trapping emissions. the united states isn't alone in this global climate effort.
( cnn ) ahmed farouq didn't have the prestige of fellow al qaeda figure osama bin laden, the influence of anwar al-awlaki, or the notoriety of adam gadahn. still, he was a big deal. two al qaeda hostages, warren weinstein of the united states and giovanni lo porto from italy, were killed in the same strike, while gadahn died in another u.s. operation that month.
tokyo ( cnn ) a week after a japanese court issued a landmark injunction halting plans to restart two nuclear reactors in a western prefecture, a different court has rejected a petition by residents to delay the reactivation of reactors in the country's southwest. the first of two reactors is scheduled to go back online in july. ``it's now in the courts.
but this man of the house is actually a woman. the grandmother of two has dressed as a man for 43 years to avoid oppression and eek out a living in the conservative muslim state. '' her daughter asked during a recorded interview with egyptian television network cbc.
he will be the first actor to play the character on the big screen since the late heath ledger. ``suicide squad'' also stars will smith, margot robbie and a large cast of villains and anti-heroes. ).
obama has argued with the progressive potentate elizabeth warren, calling her ``wrong'' on trade policy. the massachusetts senator is the same potentate to whom hillary clinton has been religiously prostrating. what everyone does next will be critical for the 2016 elections and the future of democratic politics.
( cnn ) so now the real trial is underway : what does the surviving boston marathon bomber, dzhokhar tsarnaev, deserve and why ? the killing was ``heinous, cruel and depraved. the number of dead from the bombing ( three ) and injured ( 260 ), including dozens maimed, also elevate these murders.
``the dark knight returns,'' published in 1986, is widely credited for resurrecting batman in pop culture, something we've seen referenced in everything from 1989's ``batman'' to the ``dark knight'' trilogy and the upcoming ``batman v. superman : dawn of justice. '' now popular comic book writer frank miller is returning to his best-known story. '' miller will be joined by acclaimed artist brian azzarello.
( cnn ) georgia southern university was in mourning thursday after five nursing students were killed the day before in a multivehicle wreck near savannah. caitlyn baggett, morgan bass, emily clark, abbie deloach and catherine ( mckay ) pittman -- all juniors -- were killed in the wednesday morning crash as they were traveling to a hospital in savannah, according to the school website. fellow nursing students brittney mcdaniel and megan richards were injured as was another person, who was not identified by the georgia state patrol.
on another was a lone 124-pound mother of four. and sure enough, in the end, sunday's contest at big texan steak ranch in amarillo, texas, wasn't even close. molly schuyler scarfed down three 72-ounce steaks, three baked potatoes, three side salads, three rolls and three shrimp cocktails -- far outpacing her heftier rivals.
( cnn ) after deliberating for more than 35 hours over parts of seven days, listening intently to the testimony of more than 130 witnesses and reviewing more than 400 pieces of evidence, the teary-eyed men and women of the jury exchanged embraces. since late january, their work in the massachusetts murder trial of former nfl star aaron hernandez had consumed their lives. ``it's been an incredibly emotional toll on all of us,'' lesa strachan told cnn's anderson cooper thursday in the first nationally televised interview with members of the jury.
( cnn ) warren weinstein, who appears to have been the only american citizen held hostage by al qaeda, was accidentally killed in a u.s. drone strike in january. but it didn't have to be that way. a senior u.s. official familiar with the handling of the issue told cnn that the u.s. government made no serious effort to negotiate for the 73-year-old development expert's release, either directly to al qaeda or through proxies in pakistan.
( cnn ) by some estimates, about a third of americans use some form of alternative medicine, including homeopathic remedies because they find western medicine inadequate. creams such as arnicare for pain relief or liquids such as sidda flower essences for male virility are part of a $ 2.9 billion business that has seen ``explosive growth,'' according to the fda. critics say the agency is not doing enough.
america has the highest incarceration rate in the world, with 5 % of the world's population and 25 % of its prisoners. nearly 2 1/2 million americans are in prison. over 65 million people, or 20 % of the country, have criminal records.
one of us is a college student, born into a political family, while the other is a former congressman from south carolina and father of five children. one of us served on the selection committee for the john f. kennedy profile in courage award. the other will receive this award in recognition of the stand he took when he broke with his party and sacrificed his political career to support responsible action to combat climate change.
( cnn ) larry johnson remembers the fear and feeling of helplessness from being on the skywest airlines flight that made an emergency landing in buffalo, new york. '' johnson was flying with his brother, his girlfriend and his 8-month-old son when he says a flight attendant came over the speaker asking for someone who was medically trained to help with a sick passenger. ``it was a shaky ride.
it did not lead to the american aid worker's release, and he was inadvertently killed in an anti-terror strike in january, the white house announced thursday. after the transfer of funds in 2012, the captors, who never referred to themselves as ``al qaeda,'' but instead as ``afghans,'' began demanding prisoners be released in exchange for weinstein, most prominently dr. aafia siddiqui of pakistan, the source said. she has been described as the ``poster girl'' for islamic jihad and is serving an 86-year sentence in the united states.
the cases have all occurred in nigeria's ondo state since april 13, health officials said sunday. dr. dayo adeyanju, ondo's state commissioner for health, said 18 people have died and five people are being treated. those affected are between the ages of 25 and 60.
' what was once the gateway to an ancient mayan city, built circa 700 ad and mysteriously abandoned four centuries later, stands before him. he has found the lost city of lagunita. '' noah charney is a professor of art history and best-selling author.
north korean representatives have confirmed that kim will be in the russian capital for may 9 victory day celebrations, russian presidential aide yuri ushakov said wednesday, according to russian state-run news agency tass. this would mark kim's first official foreign trip since inheriting the leadership of north korea in late 2011. kim will meet with russian president vladimir putin as part of the may visit, tass reported.
it's easy to lead a horse to water when, in the centenary year of the gallipoli campaign, our nation is at saturation point with battlefield remembrance. last weekend i planted gallipoli rosemary in my backyard ; part of the proceeds go to the avenues of honour, a national project to preserve and restore australia's living memorials. australia's participation in the war was contested from the outset.
( cnn ) giovanni lo porto put himself in harm's way to help, heading to pakistan to work on a much needed reconstruction project following deadly flooding there. two years later, lo porto was dead -- killed accidentally by a u.s. drone strike, according to american authorities. the native of the sicilian city of palermo died along with a fellow al qaeda hostage, american warren weinstein.
( cnn ) israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu will get two extra weeks to form a government, israel's president said in a news release monday. netanyahu made the request at president reuven rivlin's jerusalem home monday. '' netanyahu must form his government in less than 42 days, according to israeli law.
veteran journalist and author sandra mackey died sunday, her son, colin mackey, said. she was 77. she was an undercover reporter working for u.s. newspapers from saudi arabia as her husband, dr. dan mackey, worked in a riyadh hospital.
( cnn ) saturday's deadly earthquake in nepal was the ``big one'' experts were waiting for based on the region's history. earthquakes are a fact of life in the south asian country, with tremors of magnitude 4 or 5 occurring several times each year, geologist and science journalist kate ravilious said. and, will it all be resolved before monsoon season starts ?
( cnn ) the fbi is investigating a possible isis-inspired terrorist threat in the united states, law enforcement officials said saturday. the investigation originated from intercepted chatter and other intelligence information that led officials to believe a possible plot could be in the works, the officials said. no arrests have been made.
and sabeen mahmud surrounded herself there with books, people, and discussions on technology, human rights and women's entrepreneurship. two gunman shot her dead at point-blank range late friday after she locked up the second floor cafe in karachi for the night, police said. she is in a hospital but is expected to be released on time for her daughter's funeral.
on thursday night's ``grey's anatomy,'' dr. derek shepherd -- the hunky character played by patrick dempsey -- died. he wasn't shot down over the sea of japan, nor did a helicopter fall on his head. instead, he died following a car crash -- after helping victims of another accident.
well, aaron hernandez, the former new england patriots tight end and now convicted murderer, made none of those excuses. he walked into court with an air of bravado, his head held high like the $ 40 million, nfl superstar he was just a couple of years ago. hernandez, 25, was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole.
``there is no such thing as genocide,'' she says. ``other people are trying to create hostility between us. ninety-one percent of turks do not believe that the events of 1915 -- when, according to armenians, 1.5 million ethnic armenians were systematically killed in the final years of the ottoman empire -- were genocide, according to a recent poll.
a strong, soft-spoken woman now in her 60s, cetin is a prominent lawyer who represented armenian-turkish journalist hrant dink. dink was a strong proponent of reconciliation between turks and armenians who was tried for ``insulting turkishness. the shocking discovery of her true heritage would change cetin's life.
' in fact, one of our most famous armenians, cher, was better known for her oscar-winning portrayals of italians, and had dropped her own identifying surname. '' according to the former bureau chief of the associated press in berlin, louis lochner. '' suddenly, the poor landlocked country of armenia was trending.
real estate in london's swankier suburbs can catch a buyers' eye. mayfair, kensington and chelsea have long been the stomping ground of the elite -- and are now welcoming a new wave of african investors. ``it's bringing to london the best of the continent.
( cnn ) when bruce jenner told abc's diane sawyer and the world on friday night that ``yes, for all intents and purposes, i'm a woman,'' the declaration wasn't particularly surprising. paparazzi have been stalking the former olympic champion for months, breathlessly documenting his increasingly feminine appearance down to his lip gloss, pierced ears and french manicure. the social media reaction ?
( cnn ) fifty years ago in frankfurt, german prosecutors tried 22 former nazi ss soldiers at auschwitz in what remains the most famous holocaust trial staged in germany. not one. fritz bauer can now exhale.
in the west, isis is widely known for its terrorist actions. cnn's atika shubert explains how isis functions as a state. cnn's lisa france has a blunt look at the herb in pop culture.
on this page you will find today's show transcript and a place for you to request to be on the cnn student news roll call. transcript. click here to access the transcript of today's cnn student news program.
( cnn ) protests are gaining steam in baltimore after a man died from a devastating injury he allegedly suffered while in police custody. protesters rallied at baltimore city hall on thursday, and another march is planned for saturday. within minutes, they caught up with him and arrested him after finding a knife in his pocket.
a 14-year-old boy was taken into custody after encouraging an attack on an australian parade honoring the war dead and urging the beheading of ``someone in australia,'' deborah walsh, deputy head of counter terrorism at the crown prosecution service, said in a statement thursday. the teenager was taken into custody april 2 after uk's greater manchester police examined electronic devices and discovered communications between the teen and a man in australia, police said in a statement. the teenager, arrested in blackburn, lancashire, was not named ``because of legal reasons,'' the statement said.
there are the usual things that are said about it -- the stunning landscape, which includes mount everest, and the amazing food. but nepal has also made some of the most remarkable progress on maternal and child health in the last few years. housing the scores of newly homeless will be a tall order.
the first set of female quintuplets in the world since 1969 was born in houston on april 8, and the parents are blogging about their unique experience. danielle busby delivered all five girls at the woman's hospital of texas via c-section at 28 weeks and two days, according to cnn affiliate kprc. parents danielle and adam and big sister blayke are now a family of eight.
( cnn ) it's a warm afternoon in miami, and 35-year-old emanuel vega has come to baptist health primary care for a physical exam. vega is one of more than 44 million americans who is taking part in a medical ritual : visiting the doctor for an annual physical exam. vega says he definitely will.
( cnn ) tobacco companies including philip morris and r.j. reynolds filed suit this week against the food and drug administration alleging that the fda is violating the companies' free speech rights. this holds true even if the product was previously approved. cnn's debra goldschmidt contributed to this report.
it's been a long day of filming ``the crawler in the dark,'' a new sci-fi horror movie set in japan's meiji era. the file sharing website is celebrating 10 years since the first 19-second video ``me at the zoo,'' was uploaded on april 23, 2005 by one of the site's founders. great high quality content,'' macdonald says.
according to neuroscientists john kounios and mark beeman, there's a reason for that. their book, ``the eureka factor'', explores the influences at work behind that much sought-after ``aha ! they are processed mostly in the brain's right hemisphere.
but now we have twitter and facebook and hashtags, so these things seem to sweep around the world faster than a quick trip to the piercing joint. and somehow, many trends these days seem to somehow involve a member of the kardashian clan. to look like kylie jenner.
( cnn ) film critic richard corliss, whose populist passion for all genres of movies illuminated time magazine's coverage of cinema for 35 years, died thursday night in new york city. he was 71. corliss died a week after suffering a major stroke, according to a tribute on time's website by colleague richard zoglin, who called him ``perhaps the magazine's most quoted writer of all time.
( cnn ) another controversy has erupted from the press tour for the soon-to-be-blockbuster marvel's ``avengers : age of ultron. '' after robert downey jr. walked out on an interview, his co-stars chris evans and jeremy renner found themselves in hot water wednesday over comments they made in a similar junket interview. by thursday, both actors apologized.
( the hollywood reporter ) geoffrey lewis, a prolific character actor who appeared opposite frequent collaborator clint eastwood as his pal orville boggs in ``every which way but loose'' and its sequel, has died. he was 79. lewis, the father of oscar-nominated actress juliette lewis, died tuesday, family friend michael henderson said.
( cnn ) just weeks after marvel's ``daredevil'' premiered its first season on netflix, the company confirmed tuesday that a second season will be coming in 2016. the show focuses on attorney matt murdock ( played by charlie cox ), who was blinded as a child, as he fights injustice by day using the law. it's gotten rave reviews.
( the hollywood reporter ) oscar-winning rapper-turned-actor common has closed a deal to join the cast of ``suicide squad,'' warner bros.' all-star action movie featuring dc entertainment super-villains. david ayer is directing the feature, which already boasts actors jared leto as the joker, will smith as deadshot and margot robbie as harley quinn. the movie is in production in toronto.
fox is developing a two-hour remake of the 1975 cult classic to be directed, executive-produced and choreographed by kenneth ortega ( ``high school musical'' ). the project, tentatively titled ``the rocky horror picture show event,'' is casting-contingent. the faces of pilot season 2015.
( cnn ) with help from some filmmakers, 102-year-old alice barker went back in time. barker was a dancer in such new york nightspots as the cotton club and the cafe zanzibar in the 1930s and 1940s, part of chorus lines that entertained alongside notables including bill ``bojangles'' robinson and frank sinatra. mark cantor of jazz-on-film.
( cnn ) ``sopranos'' theorists now have a little more to chew on. show creator david chase went through the famous final scene for dga quarterly and revealed the reasoning behind each shot. his daughter is running late.
( cnn ) an internal inquiry by the tulsa county sheriff's office in 2009 concluded that reserve deputy robert bates was shown special treatment and that training policies were violated regarding his role with the agency. bates is the volunteer deputy who fatally shot suspect eric harris instead of stunning him with a taser on april 2. bates, 73, is charged with second-degree manslaughter in the shooting of harris.
( cnn ) fifteen buffalo were shot and killed on friday after a day on the loose in upstate new york. the chase, which took farmers and police officers from five jurisdictions through forests and over the hudson river, ended with ``snipers'' from the animals' farm gunning down the buffalo from the side of the road, according to lt. thomas heffernan of the bethlehem police department. ``it was time to put an end to it.
( cnn ) the last three defendants prosecuted in the hazing death of florida a&m drum major robert champion were convicted friday of manslaughter and hazing with the result of death, reported cnn affiliate wftv. they will be sentenced june 26, according to orange county, florida, online court records. he was sentenced to 77 months in prison.
hong kong ( cnn ) cathay pacific was forced to cancel a scheduled flight from london to hong kong after one of the pilots was arrested after trying to board the airliner with knives in his luggage. the pilot, who has not been identified, was stopped during security checks as the flight prepared to depart on saturday night, the metropolitan police said in a statement monday. ``at around 21:10 hours police at heathrow airport were called to a staff search area.
and then there are the hundreds already confirmed dead, not to mention the hundreds more who suffered injuries. below are some accounts from witnesses in the mountainous asian nation, in their own words. anderson, an american who was in nepal for trekking and meditation, was in his hotel room when the quake struck.
``it's, in fact, a classic example of necessity being the mother of deliciousness,'' anthony bourdain says of the dish during the premiere episode of ``parts unknown'' on sunday, april 26, at 9 p.m. et/pt. budae-jjigae. courtesy of choi ji-hwang.
( cnn ) a transportation security administration committee concluded that full screening of airport employees nationwide would not lower the overall risk to the public, according to a report released monday. the report by the tsa's aviation security advisory committee said that full employee screening would not ``appreciably increase the overall system-wide protection. '' the tsa and most airports could not afford 100 % employee screening, the report said.
( cnn ) americans on the united states' no-fly list will now be privy to information about why they have been banned from commercial flights and be given the opportunity to dispute their status, according to court documents filed by the justice department this week. the revised policy comes in response to a june ruling by a federal judge that said the old process was in violation of the fifth amendment's guarantee of due process. the number of people on the list is classified.
betty whitehead willis, the designer of the iconic ``welcome to fabulous las vegas'' sign, died over the weekend. she was 91. she retired at age 77.
after the new york area received a large amount of rain, four rainbows appeared to stretch across the early morning sky on tuesday. amanda curtis, ceo of a fashion company, snapped the lucky shot. in rural china, hiring exotic dancers to perform at wakes is an increasingly common practice.
( cnn ) anthony doerr's ``all the light we can not see,'' a novel centered on the world war ii bombing of st.-malo, france, and two characters on opposite sides of the war, won the pulitzer prize for fiction monday. doerr's work was also a finalist for the national book award. 2015 pulitzer prize winners in journalism named.
( cnn ) when melissa atkins wardy, author of ``redefining girly'' and a passionate advocate for fighting gender stereotypes, heard from a frustrated mom on facebook, she knew she needed to do something. so she shared the mom's story. in a blog post, wardy told how the mom, veronica of richland, washington, wanted to buy ``big hero 6'' fabric to make pillows for her two children.
( cnn ) this is week three of an ongoing series : a catholic reads the bible. lot and the destruction of sodom and gomorrah was new to me. lot is the central character in the grim story of sodom and gomorrah's demise in chapter 19.
( cnn ) my name is mark goodacre, and i am a professor of new testament and christian origins in the department of religious studies at duke university. viewers were invited to tweet and post their questions on the ``finding jesus'' facebook page during the season finale about mary magdalene. it is currently located in berlin, germany.
( cnn ) fast-food outlet burger king will sponsor the wedding of an illinois couple. not just any couple -- these are the nuptials of joel burger and ashley king. they accepted the restaurant chain's offer to pay for their july affair on monday.
( cnn ) actress mindy kaling's brother says that he posed as a black man years ago to get into medical school and that the experience opened his eyes to what he calls the hypocrisy of affirmative action. the revelation comes as vijay chokal-ingam, who is of indian descent, is pitching a book about his experiences as a ``hard-partying college frat boy who discovered the seriousness and complexity of america's racial problems while posing as a black man. '' he says it worked.
( cnn ) the overturned convertible was smoldering, when police pulled up to it on a new jersey roadway. the driver was pinned inside -- and unconscious. kinnelon police officers mark ehrenburg and ricky ferriola cut the seat belt from her, then dragged the woman's limp body away from the crash to start emergency medical care.
washington ( cnn ) this week is the 100th anniversary of what many historians acknowledge as the armenian genocide -- the turkish massacre of an estimated 1.5 million armenians. and it's also the seventh year in a row president barack obama has broken his promise to use the word ``genocide'' to describe the atrocity. it's a moral position taken by pope francis, actor george clooney and even by the kardashians.
humans never have lived on a planet that's 2 degrees celsius ( 3.6 fahrenheit ) warmer than it was before we started burning fossil fuels, in the late 1800s, and climate experts say we risk fundamentally changing life on this planet if we do cross that 2-degree mark. ``this is gambling with the planet,'' said gernot wagner, the lead senior economist at the environmental defense fund and co-author of the book ``climate shock. '' think super droughts, rising seas and mass extinctions.
( cnn ) is america a nation divided ? and has ohio found a better way to bridge those divisions ? in 2011, i returned to public service -- after earlier serving for 18 years in congress in the 1980s and'90s.
how can the people in iowa and new hampshire get to know the ``real hillary,'' the midwestern methodist ? ( as a friend told me, she's someone who ``likes to sing `god bless america' on new year's eve. ' ).
a new cnn/orc poll finds 57 % feel businesses such as caterers or florists should be required to serve gay or lesbian couples just as they would heterosexual couples, while 41 % say they should be allowed to refuse service for religious reasons. that's a shift from a pew research center poll conducted last fall, which found just 49 % thought businesses ought to be required to serve same-sex couples while 47 % that they should be allowed to refuse service on religious grounds. the big gay wedding cake quiz.
( cnn ) nine of ten mostly foreign prisoners on death row in indonesia have been given 72 hours notice ahead of their execution, according to a spokesperson for the attorney general's office. ``seventy-two hours notification means three days, at least, to go to the execution. it may be longer.
sheldon and leonard's moms are back, and that ought to make for one of the best episodes this season. tv's top comedy will see the return of christine baranski and laurie metcalf as the mothers of leonard and sheldon, respectively. scarlett johannsson is the host, the day after her new blockbuster ``avengers'' movie opens nationwide.
dr. kristen lindsey allegedly shot an arrow into the back of an orange tabby's head and posted a proud photo this week on facebook of herself smiling, as she dangled its limp body by the arrow's shaft. ``my first bow kill, lol. high price of public shaming on the internet.
( cnn ) at least four people are missing after a severe storm capsized sailboats saturday afternoon during a regatta in mobile bay, alabama, coast guard spokesman carlos vega said. five people were initially reported missing, but one of them has since been been rescued, the coast guard said. the club says this is the 57th year for the event.
the devastating earthquake that hit nepal on saturday set off avalanches that left large numbers of climbers dead, missing, injured or trapped on mount everest. and aftershocks, including a strong one sunday, are continuing to send snow and rocks thundering down the mountainside, complicating rescue efforts. the base camp on the nepal side of everest is in a vulnerable spot, sitting in a valley surrounded by high himalayan peaks.
( cnn ) tickets will go on sale after an agreement on allocation was reached for the may 2 fight between floyd mayweather and manny pacquiao. kenny bayless has been named as the referee of next month's fight between mayweather and pacquiao. he's one of the best referees in the world.
( cnn ) there will be no hate crime charges for two males arrested in the beating of a man that may have been sparked by a question about the 2014 shooting of michael brown. st. louis police have charged ronald williams, 21, with assault. a 15-year-old has also been arrested, according to authorities.
military and aid flights have priority, and a few military planes -- indian military planes -- were going in, trying to bring in aid. most buildings are not up to high construction standards. the guests are in a big tent used for functions on the lawn.
jon ``bones'' jones, the reigning ufc light heavyweight champion, is wanted for ``his possible involvement in a hit-and-run accident'' sunday morning, albuquerque police said. a pregnant woman in her 20s who was driving another vehicle suffered minor injuries in the accident, police said. but he has also had his struggles.
in rural china, hiring exotic dancers to perform at wakes is an increasingly common practice, but is now the latest focus of the country's crackdown on vice. strippers are invited to perform at funerals, often at great expense, to attract more mourners, china's official xinhua news agency said. ``the performance crossed the line.
boston ( cnn ) sending boston marathon bomber dzhokhar tsarnaev to prison for the rest of his life would bring years of punishment and rob him of martyrdom, jurors were told monday. ``there is no evening of the scales. ``no martyrdom.
by the rows of names, red dots are marked to signify the dead. in the past few days, news -- from the network of friends and family across the world -- came in that 20 new dots needed to be scratched in -- for the 20 friends who'd drowned off the shores of italy. for 25 years, ali addeh refugee camp has been a holding point for those fleeing into djibouti, which borders eritrea, ethiopia and somalia in the horn of africa.
his wife said she was still searching for answers thursday after u.s. officials revealed the 73-year-old american aid worker had been accidentally killed in a u.s. drone strike targeting al qaeda. '' gunmen abducted weinstein in 2011 from his home in lahore, parkistan. they posed as neighbors, offered food and then pistol-whipped the american aid worker and tied up his guards, his family said.
from friday to monday, a total of 8,480 migrants were rescued, according to the italian coast guard, which said it received on monday -- alone -- sos calls from 20 boats in distress. on tuesday, a spokesman with save the children told cnn the group fears 400 migrants could be missing, citing testimony from survivors who said their ship carrying 550 people capsized in the mediterranean sea about 80 miles off the libyan coast. they use libya as a country of transit.
the mad rush of 24 hours previously, in those first confusing, cacophonous hours following the 7.8-magnitude earthquake near the nepali capital, had died down. at the airport, at passport control, we meet a nepalese man, who is unable to contact his family. he also has two cousins on everest, he says.
( cnn ) on july 20, 2012, excited moviegoers gathered for a midnight screening of ``the dark knight rises'' at the century aurora 16 multiplex theater in aurora, colorado. twelve people were killed and 70 were injured. on monday, shooting suspect james holmes goes on trial for 165 counts, including murder and attempted murder charges.
( cnn ) gunshots were fired at rapper lil wayne's tour bus early sunday in atlanta. no one was injured in the shooting, and no arrests have been made, atlanta police spokeswoman elizabeth espy said. officers were called to a parking lot in atlanta's buckhead neighborhood, espy said.
new delhi, india ( cnn ) as the earth shook in nepal, tremors were felt over the border in india as well. on sunday alone, india delivered 187 tons of supplies, including 50 tons of water, 22 tons of food and 2 tons of medicine. india's prime minister narendra modi has made a special effort over nepal.
they became criers in the desert against countless young people flinging rocks at police, breaking windows, looting and setting fires. ``it's disrespect to the family. the 25-year-old african-american man died from spinal injuries after being arrested earlier this month.
in video captured by cnn affiliate wmar, the woman is seen pulling her masked son away from a crowd, smacking him in the head repeatedly, and screaming at him. the boy is dressed in dark pants and a black hoodie, with a dark backpack on. wmar reports that the woman saw her son on television throwing rocks at police.
( cnn ) a professor at texas a&m galveston said in an email to his strategic management students that they were a disgrace, that they lacked maturity -- and that he would fail the entire class. irwin horwitz, an instructional associate professor in the university's department of maritime administration, told cnn affiliate kprc that he had finally reached a breaking point. ``enough was enough,'' horwitz said.
washington ( cnn ) an off-duty member of the uniformed division of secret service was arrested friday in washington and charged with first-degree attempted burglary, a felony, and one misdemeanor count for destruction of property, the d.c. metropolitan police department reported. arthur baldwin, 29, was arrested at a woman's residence in southeast washington, according to documents provided by the police department. he has been placed on administrative leave and his security clearance has been suspended, the secret service said.
eight million affected across nepal. one million children urgently in need of help. as the country coped with the fallout of the quake, another natural disaster struck tuesday afternoon in a popular trekking area north of kathmandu, and up to 200 people were feared missing as a result of a landslide, a trekking association official said.
the main highway that heads east out of kathmandu shows massive cracks, the tarmac torn apart by the force of saturday's huge tremor. it is only 30 kilometers ( 20 miles ) east of kathmandu but the journey takes almost two hours -- and the travel times likely to be compounded the farther out from the city people go. she's petite and frail but hardened by life.
none of the girls rescued from raided boko haram camps in nigeria has been identified thus far as among the missing chibok girls, a high-ranking nigerian army official said. the official did not rule out that captives from other boko haram camps that were raided might be girls abducted in april 2014 from a school in chibok. the official said he would have the final word by day's end on wednesday.
the nepali pranksters were in the middle of shooting an episode for their hidden camera series when the magnitude-7.8 earthquake broke out. the nepali pranksters' videos show people's reactions to various ``pranks'' that challenge cultural norms. ``we are scared.
seoul ( cnn ) south korea's prime minister lee wan-koo offered to resign on monday amid a growing political scandal. lee will stay in his official role until south korean president park geun-hye accepts his resignation. he has transferred his role of chairing cabinet meetings to the deputy prime minister for the time being, according to his office.
( cnn ) robert downey jr. is making headlines for walking out of an interview with a british journalist who dared to veer away from the superhero movie downey was there to promote. the journalist instead started asking personal questions about the actor's political beliefs and ``dark periods'' of addiction and jail time. '' and stands up to leave.
his tiny face is coated in dust from the debris that crashed around him as the earth shook on saturday, april 25, killing more than 5,000 people and injuring at least twice as many more. his name is sonit awal, and he's just four months old. the house collapsed, burying the child, leaving his father shyam awal frantically searching for him amid the rubble.
hillary clinton is about to get her first official challenger. sen. bernie sanders of vermont could make an announcement within days, reports cnn's nia-malika henderson, adding a populist voice to a democratic race that starts with clinton as the overwhelming favorite. sanders has been exploring a run for months, and was a hit this weekend at a big south carolina democratic event.
peshawar, pakistan ( cnn ) ten people have been sentenced to life in prison for their roles in the 2012 attack on nobel peace prize-winning activist malala yousafzai, a judge announced thursday. the assailant's conviction and sentences follow a trial that included testimony from both sides, according to pakistani antiterrorism judge mohammad amin kundi. malala at u.n. : the taliban failed to silence us.
the mission, a joint effort between indian air crew and a nepalese army medical team, is only the third operation of its kind to reach the village since saturday's massive 7.8-magnitude quake, which left more than 5,000 people dead. he says people have been desperately awaiting the supplies. ``everyone is sleeping outside,'' he says.
( cnn ) thousands remain missing in nepal after a devastating earthquake struck the region on saturday. several organizations, such as google and the red cross, have published features about the missing on their websites. and on cnn ireport, dozens of people have filed reports pleading for information that might help them locate their missing friends and relatives.
canberra, australia ( cnn ) before ``bali nine'' duo, andrew chan and myuran sukumaran, the last australian executed for drug offenses abroad was van tuong nguyen by singapore in 2005. the executions of chan and sukumaran early wednesday morning will be a different story. the opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.
western australia ( cnn ) many australians are understandably appalled by the brutal and pointless executions of andrew chan and myuran sukumaran. as german sociologist max weber pointed out, one of the key features of an effective state is that it has a monopoly over the legitimate use of violence. state officials can order people to be killed because -- especially in democracies -- we authorize them to do so.
it's largely a procedural step, and given the overtures from baltimore officials, the state's attorney's decision on whether to file charges against the six officers involved in the arrest will not be immediate. no reports will be made public, police commissioner anthony batts said, echoing an assertion he made last week that even after the prosecutors receive the files, the task force assigned to gray's death will continue investigating. '' mayor stephanie rawlings-blake seemed reluctant to do so during a thursday interview with cnn.
( cnn ) german police overnight thwarted a terrorist plot by a radicalized couple, a plan they suspect involved bombing a bicycle race near frankfurt, a german terrorism researcher briefed by investigators told cnn on thursday. german prosecutors and police said that a man and a woman had been arrested in the frankfurt-area town of oberursel on suspicion of planning a boston-style attack, but the authorities did not explicitly reveal the target. the suspected target, according to florian flade, the terrorism researcher, was a race planned for friday.
a large crowd erupted in cheers as pemba tamang was carried out on a stretcher. he was wearing a new york shirt and a blue neck brace, was blanketed by dust and had the look of a deer in the headlights. his rescuer, inspector lakshman basnet of the nepalese armed police force, said tamang was responsive and showed no apparent signs of serious injury.
' mosby, who took over her first elected post in january, now faces what is likely to be the toughest case of her nascent career -- deciding whether criminal charges should be filed against baltimore police officers in the controversial death of freddie gray. gray, 25, died in police custody from a fatal spinal cord injury, one week after he was arrested. six officers involved in his arrest have been suspended with pay pending an investigation.
( cnn ) kim bok-dong is 89 now, and is going blind and deaf. she enters a meeting of tokyo foreign correspondents in a wheelchair, visibly exhausted after a flight from seoul and days of interviews and meetings. kim was a 14-year-old girl when the japanese came to her village in korea.
( cnn ) about a dozen native american actors have walked off the set of an adam sandler movie comedy, saying the satirical western's script is insulting to native americans and women, according to a report. the walkout occurred wednesday on the set of ``the ridiculous six'' near las vegas, new mexico, according to the indian country today media network. ``nothing has changed,'' she told ictmn.
( cnn ) japanese prime minister shinzo abe is scheduled to speak wednesday to a joint meeting of congress. the address marks the first time in history that the head of the japanese government will address the entire u.s. congress, and given the importance of the u.s.-japan relationship, it is an invitation long overdue. so far, prime minister abe's appearance has garnered much less attention than last month's speech to congress by israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu.
a group of fighters in afghanistan agreed to be filmed by a cnn cameraman parading their isis flags in a valley not far to the south of kabul, the afghan capital. they are the first images of their kind shot by western media inside afghanistan. the rise of isis is an issue that the afghan president, ashraf ghani, has termed a ``terrible threat.
as the president and ceo of cbs corp., which includes showtime, moonves runs a powerful television network in a town where nearly every waiter also wants to be an actor. but when he walked into craig's in west hollywood last year, those roles were reversed. instead, he was offering moonves an ``in'' to the most coveted match-up in boxing : floyd mayweather vs. manny pacquiao.
atlanta ( cnn ) a judge, declaring he wasn't ``comfortable'' with seven-year prison terms given earlier to three educators in the atlanta public schools cheating scandal, on thursday reduced their sentences to three years in prison. '' tamara cotman, sharon davis-williams and michael pitts also were ordered thursday to serve seven years on probation, pay $ 10,000 fines and work 2,000 hours in community service. all defendants sentenced to prison have appealed and are out on bond.
( the hollywood reporter ) add another fan-favorite character to the cast of next year's ``x-men : apocalypse,'' with director bryan singer announcing via instagram that olivia munn will play the telepathic psylocke in the follow-up to ``x-men : days of future past. ``apocalypse'' is currently in production for a summer 2016 release. © 2015 the hollywood reporter.
( cnn ) some of the men and women of the indianapolis police force are giving up their blues. beginning friday, blue uniform shirts will be traded for white ones for command staff members of the indianapolis metropolitan police department ( impd ). the new color will be worn by majors, district commanders, deputy chiefs, assistant chiefs and the chief of police.
london ( cnn ) congolese immigrant tarsis mboma thale has a small business selling t-shirts in johannesburg, south africa. the cause of this surge in violence is murky, with some blaming alleged inflammatory comments about foreign nationals from the zulu king, local media reported, others saying a labor dispute between locals and foreigners back in march turned nasty. the violence has caused thousands of immigrants to seek refuge at police stations and shelters.
iran is a difficult place to be gay or lesbian. mahmoud ahmadinejad, the former president of iran, famously said during a 2007 trip to the united states, ``in iran, we don't have homosexuals, like in your country. homosexuality is illegal.
( cnn ) marvel comics superhero hawkeye is a master with the bow and arrow. he's also got a secret super-talent at singing ed sheeran parodies. the'' avengers'' character ( played by jeremy renner ) was a guest on ``the tonight show starring jimmy fallon,'' where he got behind the piano to showcase some of his other skills.
los angeles ( cnn ) former rap mogul marion ``suge'' knight pleaded not guilty thursday to murder and all other charges related to a fatal hit-and-run incident in january in compton, california. his attorney asked the court to further reduce knight's bail, now set at $ 10 million, but los angeles county judge ronald coen denied the request. knight, 49, faces up to life in prison if convicted.
( cnn ) the nominations for the 69th annual tony awards were announced tuesday morning. past tony winner and three-time nominee mary-louise parker unveiled the nominees with bruce willis, who is set to make his broadway debut in the upcoming play ``misery. kristin chenoweth, a nominee for ``on the 20th century,'' and recent ``cabaret'' star alan cumming are set to host the ceremony.
the oscar winner put on white makeup ( and a lot of tattoos this time ) to portray the clown prince of crime in the upcoming movie ``suicide squad. '' set for release august 5, 2016, ``suicide squad'' is based on the dc comics series and also stars will smith, margot robbie and viola davis. which is your favorite ?
the uber private rapper/entrepreneur broke out of his usually reserved social media shell over the weekend to defend the performance of his new music streaming service, tidal. using the hashtag #tidalfacts, he attempted to refute talk that the company has been doing a less than stellar job in taking on competitor spotify. '' cnn money : jay z's tidal music service to be owned by artists.
universal announced thursday that the sequel to the box office blockbuster will hit theaters on feb. 10, 2017. the third film in the series will debut feb. 9, 2018. © 2015 the hollywood reporter.
( cnn ) people magazine has anointed sandra bullock the world's most beautiful woman of 2015, the publication revealed on wednesday. bullock, 50, joins a long line of actresses to receive the honor, including last year's cover girl, lupita nyong `o, and gwyneth paltrow in 2013. '' ``real beauty is quiet.
hawking has partnered with the silly lads of monty python to recreate the signature ``galaxy song'' from their 1983 film ``the meaning of life. '' the collabo is in honor of saturday's record store day, when the 7-inch single will be available for sale. hawking's version is available for download.
dzhokhar ``jahar'' tsarnaev's defense team is seeking to spare him from a death sentence for his part two years ago in the boston marathon bombings and murder of an mit police officer. '' the sentencing phase of the federal case will resume monday. tsarnaev was convicted april 8 on all 30 counts, including 17 that carry a possible death penalty.
as the world awaits the impending birth of william and kate's second baby, potential names have become the topic of rampant speculation and heated debate. if the assumptions are correct, she will be the first princess of cambridge born into the royal family in 182 years. she has become a part of royal history.
( cnn ) as the great kate wait of 2015 drags on, giving a whole new meaning to kate's somewhat unfair noughties nickname, ``waity katie,'' bets on the arrival of a new baby a girl continue to be placed at a feverish rate. as of today, 70 % of those laying down their hard earned cash are convinced the world is on the verge of welcoming a new princess. i suspect different parties are hoping for a girl for different reasons.
tehran, iran ( cnn ) the basij is a militia made up of fighters loyal to iran's religious leaders ; their mission is to protect the country's islamic order. '' the commander says that, so far, the basij has not been caught up in the fight against the feared islamic extremists currently waging war in parts of iraq and syria. suleimani was accused of involvement in the shia insurgency against u.s. forces during the iraq war.
( cnn ) actress linda thompson, bruce jenner's second wife, says she can ``breathe a little easier'' knowing her ex-husband has found the strength to publicly declare he is transgender. in a two-hour special that aired friday, the olympic gold medalist and ``keeping up with the kardashians'' star said he has the ``soul of a female'' even though he was born with male body parts. for that i commend him.
( cnn ) bernie sanders, my vermont senator and, indeed, a friend of many years, is now running for president. '' to most americans, of course, sen. bernie sanders is only a name, if that. he is a socialist, of course.
we were there to protest the acquittal of four police officers in the beating death of unarmed motorcyclist arthur mcduffie. community leaders were gathered at the front, speaking to a crowd that was in shock and full of anger and despair. the miami riots of 1980 were the first major ``race riots'' since the wave of riots spread across the nation in the 1960s.
liberal democrats have found more political space to move forward with their initiatives. in new york city, mayor bill de blasio has launched an ambitious pre-k education program to broaden access for all of the city's residents. in new orleans, the mayor has put together a generous housing program to guarantee that there are no veterans without shelter.
i was at my uncle's place in ramkot, west kathmandu, some 12 kilometers ( 7.4 miles ) east from my family home. after escaping the building for the safety of open air, my first thought was for news of friends and family. a mud-and-brick cottage had fallen on a blue motorbike but no trace could be found of its rider.
during an expedition through the brittany region on the west coast of france, photographer fabien le coq noticed an unusual tree. ``i love exploring new places. '' the series, shot between 2012 and 2014, reflects le coq's travels through his native france and countries in central america and asia.
( cnn ) on the morning of april 19, 1995, a man parked a rental truck packed with explosives in front of the alfred p. murrah federal building in oklahoma city. timothy mcveigh and terry nichols, former u.s. army soldiers, were convicted of the attack. mcveigh was executed in 2001, and nichols is serving a life sentence.
hong kong ( cnn ) when she was growing up, mui thomas, wanted to be a fashion model -- not an unusual aspiration for a young girl. but mui suffers from a rare genetic condition that leaves the skin on her face and body red raw and open to infection. the oldest is 31.
kano, nigeria ( cnn ) hundreds of decomposed corpses were discovered buried in shallow graves in the streets of the northeastern nigerian town of damasak this past weekend, according to local officials and a resident. the town had recently been freed from the boko haram terror group in a joint nigerian-chadian military operation. mustapha said the bodies were buried in 20 clearly marked mass graves.
( cnn ) april 27 is celebrated as freedom day in south africa, commemorating the country's first democratic elections in 1994 election which saw nelson mandela elected as president. the day is widely seen as marking the start of a free south africa after the fall of apartheid, a system of racial segregation implemented by the white-minority government in south africa for decades. indian prime minister narendra modi also hailed the people of south africa and sent out a message of hope.
( cnn ) the head of the libyan army has rejected the possibility of cooperating with any eu military intervention in his country intended to stem the flow of undocumented migrants trying to reach europe. ``the decision was taken without consulting the legitimate libyan side. ``the migrant crisis affects them.
( cnn ) a prosecutor has dismissed allegations that argentine president cristina fernandez de kirchner tried to cover up iran's involvement in a 1994 bombing in buenos aires. alberto nisman was found dead days after making the accusations. eighty-five people were killed, and hundreds were injured.
back in 2010, at the height of cartel violence, the city averaged 8.5 killings per day. mayor enrique serrano officially kicked off the campaign, giving what he called an ``unprecedented'' high-profile tour to regional leaders from the united states and mexico. u.s. rep. robert ``beto'' o'rourke of texas was one of those on a leg of the juarez tour.
tokyo ( cnn ) with the world watching, in his historic address to a joint session of the u.s. congress, the first ever by a japanese prime minister, shinzo abe surprised nobody by missing a great opportunity to dispel worries and tensions he raises with his revisionist views on history. and this ``abenesia'' is harmful to japan's international image, riles china and south korea and thereby undermines the bilateral security agenda. strengthening the alliance with japan and sealing the deal on the trans-pacific partnership trumps past misdeeds.
( cnn ) an unmanned russian spacecraft originally bound for the international space station will re-enter the earth's atmosphere after flight controllers lost contact with it, american astronaut scott kelly said wednesday. the spacecraft that lost contact with flight controllers will re-enter the earth's atmosphere in about a week, roscosmos, the russian federal space agency, said wednesday. the ship is now spinning out of control, nasa said.
the british-led war games are code named joint warrior and the numbers are all big : 13,000 personnel from 14 countries operating more than 50 ships and submarines as well as 70 aircraft. nato says the planning started long before russia began behaving as an adversary. russia has taken an interest.
jerusalem ( cnn ) the israeli military conducted airstrikes sunday night in the area between israel and syria, targeting a group of militants allegedly trying to plant a bomb on the israeli border. the israel defense forces said the airstrikes were carried out in the occupied golan heights against four militants who crossed into the area from syria. the airstrikes prevented the bombing, the military said.
( cnn ) combining healthy eating with moral support, jean nidetch became a heavyweight in the weight-loss industry. the founder of weight watchers died wednesday at her home in florida. she was 91.
last thursday, jeff courcelle came home from work to find 5-year-old mocha -- a pure bred fawn-colored doberman pincher -- hovering over a pile of screws, metal pieces, three watch heads and some chewed leather straps. the couple took her to the mspca's angell animal medical center, a 24-hour emergency and specialty hospital, where a veterinarian performed a 3-hour endoscopy to explore the contents of her belly. she had 28 staples down her belly and 10 inches of intestine removed, parkinson said.
( cnn ) as the model for norman rockwell's ``rosie the riveter,'' mary doyle keefe became the symbol of american women working on the home front during world war ii. the 92-year-old died this week at her home in simsbury, connecticut. rockwell lived in neighboring west arlington at the time.
the list of things she doesn't use would send shivers up a consumer marketer's spine : no plastic packaging, no new clothing, no metal cans, no cars ( and in turn, no gas ). this is all the waste she has collected in nearly half a year. six month's worth of garbage for shreeves is similar to what the average person generates in half a day.
the puzzling problem went viral after singapore television host kenneth kong posted it to facebook. cheryl's birthday challenge was meant to test the better high-school students competing in the singapore and asian schools math olympiad, held april 8. of course, the internet has offered other solutions.
( cnn ) the night before her daughter's first triathlon, kate parker could tell the child was nervous. '' the photo is one of parker's favorites from her series, ``strong is the new pretty. ``alice is a beautiful singer.
the u.s. supreme court will hear oral arguments tuesday in a case that could decide whether gay and lesbian couples nationwide have the constitutional right to marry. the question at the core of obergefell v. hodges is one of the most consequential debates of the early 21st century, and one that is already helping to shape the 2016 presidential race. '' roberts disagreed.
the latest estimates from seismologists put the magnitude at 7.9, which would actually makes it about 40 % larger than the 7.8 currently being reported. that's less than half the size of the previous major event nearby in 1934, which killed around 10,000 people. it's the reason everest exists.
( the hollywood reporter ) ben powers, who played thelma's ( bernnadette stanis ) husband keith anderson on the final season of the classic cbs sitcom ``good times,'' has died. he was 64. powers joined the cast of ``good times'' for its sixth and final season from 1978 to 1979 season, playing keith, a professional football player.
' it wasn't frances hodgson burnett's 1911 novel about a sour little girl's magical place, making a book club comeback. it was a similarly named coloring book that adults were buying, for themselves, and it wasn't the only one in the top 10. johanna basford's ``secret garden : an inky treasure hunt & coloring book'' ( now at no. 3 on amazon ) along with her second effort, ``enchanted forest : an inky quest & coloring book'' ( no. 6 ) ; ``balance ( angie's extreme stress menders volume 1 )'' by angie grace ( no. 9 ) ; and ``the mindfulness colouring book : anti-stress art therapy for busy people'' by emma farrarons ( no. 8 on amazon uk ) are selling at a rapid clip.
heavy drinking among americans rose 17.2 percent between 2005 and 2012, largely due to rising rates among women, according to the study by the institute for health metrics and evaluation at the university of washington, published thursday in the american journal of public health. ``it's really, really scary. '' the study is the first to track adult drinking patterns at the county level.
( cnn ) a 17-year-old teen who has been living at connecticut children's medical center since december while being forced to have chemotherapy to treat hodgkin's lymphoma has completed treatment and left the hospital monday, according to her attorney, josh michtom. cassandra c., as she is identified in court documents, was ordered into custody of the connecticut department of children and families by a judge in december. cassandra remained in the hospital.
( cnn ) people have long underestimated the athleticism necessary for golf. but over the last decade, with fit golfers like tiger woods, adam scott, and now jordan spieth all winning the masters, the training perspective on golf is shifting. related : yoga for triathletes.
in an interview with the daily beast, barr said she suffers from macular degeneration and glaucoma and told the website, ``my vision is closing in now. '' the comedic actress said smoking marijuana is ``good medicine'' for relieving the pressure in her eyes. ``it's something weird.
a new study has found that acetaminophen, the main ingredient in tylenol, most forms of midol and more than 600 other medicines, reduces not only pain but pleasure, as well. the authors of the study, which was published this week in psychological science, say that it was already known that acetaminophen blunted psychological pain. this group showed the same blunting of emotional reactions.
( cnn ) roseanne barr revealed earlier this week that she is going blind. in an interview with the daily beast, the 62-year-old comic talked about her struggle with macular degeneration and glaucoma -- two eye diseases that get progressively worse over time and can steal vision. barr's doctors haven't provided a timeline, but her symptoms are worsening : ``my vision is closing in now,'' she said.
( cnn ) hawaii is poised to become the first state in the nation to prohibit the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to anybody under age 21. the state's legislature on friday passed a bill raising the minimum legal age -- currently 18 -- to buy tobacco or e-cigarettes. the bill will now go before gov. david ige, whose signature would make it law in hawaii as of january 1, 2016.
( cnn ) the number of new hiv infections in a rural indiana county has grown, according to the centers for disease control and prevention. the institute is working with state health leaders to control the ``severe outbreak,'' which has spread among users of a prescription opioid called opana. the outbreak has been ongoing since mid-december.
( cnn ) the latest outbreak of bird flu -- the worst in the u.s. since the 1980s -- is not a likely threat to humans, reports the centers for disease control and prevention. but as with any potential threat to human health, they are preparing for the worst just in case. the cdc and the united states department of agriculture held a press conference wednesday to talk about preparations.
( cnn ) when the earthquake hit, many of nepal's most renowned pagodas in and around kathmandu crumbled into rubble-covered stumps. but the kathmandu valley's other pagodas, stupas and shrines -- also built mostly of red brick hundreds of years ago -- suffered surprisingly little damage and remained standing next to structures which disappeared. the worst architectural losses have included the majestic shiva temple pagoda and its twin, the narayan temple pagoda, which dominated kathmandu's main durbar square.
' that was susie clark's prayer on april 23, according to the state park service. she plans to keep it. the diamond, which is the largest found at the park so far this year, is about the size of a pinto bean, says park interpreter waymon cox.
( cnn ) jacob lawrence's groundbreaking work, ``the migration of the negro,'' is a series of 60 small paintings with text depicting the lives of millions of pre-world war ii blacks as they moved from the oppressive south to the promise of a better life in the north. they were arrested on the slightest provocation. crime is increasing.
( cnn ) just about now, north korea's enigmatic ruler was expected to be preparing to emerge from his fortified country for a visit to moscow to join celebrations next week marking the 70th anniversary of the end of world war ii in europe. the trip was highly anticipated. he said that ``the decision is connected with north korean domestic affairs.
( cnn ) eternally blooming in kolkata, india, along the hooghly river is malik ghat, a wholesale flower market that attracts more than 2,000 sellers each day. photographer ken hermann visited the market for his project ``flower man,'' which is a series of portraits that casts light upon the people behind the petals. social media.
lewis hamilton took victory for the silver arrows at the chinese grand prix -- only for his teammate nico rosberg to later claim he had ruined his race by driving slowly. the reigning world champion captured his 35th grand prix win with a peerless pole-to-flag win under shanghai's sunny skies. '' f1 championship standings.
( cnn ) pushed to his limits, a college professor took the extreme measure of threatening to fail his entire class. in an email to his students, irwin horwitz accused them of ``backstabbing, game playing, cheating, lying, fighting. the story went viral.
aiko chihira is an android manufactured by toshiba, designed to look and move like a real person. toshiba says chihira has 43 motors allowing it to move, speak in sign language and even sing. ``communication is important,'' she says.
( cnn ) a longtime friend of joni mitchell has filed a legal petition seeking to be named the singer-songwriter's conservator. mitchell, who was inducted into the rock and roll hall of fame in 1997, was taken to ucla medical center a month ago after being found unconscious in her home. morris is described as mitchell's friend of more than 44 years in the legal documents.
( cnn ) richard dysart, the award-winning stage actor who gained fame playing law firm leader leland mckenzie on ``l.a. law,'' has died. he was 86. he died of cancer at his home in santa monica, california, according to his wife, kathryn jacobi dysart.
( cnn ) with the announcement that e! will air a new documentary series this summer about bruce jenner's transition from male to female, fans are eagerly awaiting bearing witness to the former olympian's journey. the as yet not titled eight-part, one-hour series is set to premiere july 26. jenner is extremely close with his children.
baltimore police said rioting at a shopping mall and elsewhere monday afternoon started amid rumors, spread on social media, of a ``purge'' led by large groups of marauding high school students. the term appears to be a reference to 2013's ``the purge'' and its sequel, last year's ``the purge : anarchy,'' about a dystopian future america where on one day each year, all laws are suspended for a 12-hour period and all crimes, including murder, become temporarily legal. how baltimore police, protesters battle on twitter.
one of the biggest challenges rescue workers are facing in nepal is reaching affected people in remote mountainous areas. the youngest is 10, the oldest in his 70s. the group's philosophy is ``to support, not to invade.
the results of the obama white house's innovative efforts to make the world a better place can be accounted for in the ever-growing numbers of victims of radical islam in the middle east, north africa and south asia. not to mention here in the united states, canada and europe. yes, osama bin laden was killed on president obama's watch.
the 40-year-old mother-of-four was at home when saturday's deadly 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck, bringing the 5-story building down around her ground floor apartment. in the wake of the disaster, which has left at least 4,500 people dead across nepal, sitoula endured 36 long hours trapped in a room on the ground floor, before she was freed by an indian rescue team. remarkably, she escaped without injury, apparently protected by a beam.
( cnn ) freddie gray was arrested baltimore police on the morning of april 12 without incident, according to police. less than an hour after he was detained, officers transporting him called for a medic. he subsequently slipped into a coma, dying a week after his initial arrest.
( cnn ) sunday's announcement that corinthian colleges inc. would shut down all of its remaining 28 campuses is a positive development in a long struggle to hold for-profit colleges accountable. corinthian, which once enrolled more than 70,000 students, is one of the worst of the ``predator colleges'' -- schools that offer dubious degrees, saddle students with high amounts of debt and gobble up tens of billions of dollars in federal money every year. many of these schools are for-profit career colleges that operate mostly online.
( cnn ) c-span's live telecast of the white house correspondents' association dinner on saturday night, hosted by cecily strong of ``saturday night live,'' was not strong's finest hour, though the entire affair seemed like five of c-span's longest hours. more than 2,000 credentialed white house journalists and their mostly celebrity guests convened for the occasion. ).
( cnn ) the hillary clinton presidential campaign surely anticipated the coming wave of inquiries and criticism about conflicts of interest involving big foreign donors to charities run by the clinton family -- questions set to get a thorough airing in a new book called ``clinton cash : the untold story of how and why foreign governments and businesses helped make bill and hillary rich'' by peter schweizer, coming out may 5. according to the wall street journal, in 2014 the clinton foundation ``received money from the united arab emirates, saudi arabia and oman, among others. the donors included canada's foreign affairs department, which is promoting the keystone xl pipeline.
the miami-dade police department set up the camera as part of an ongoing police investigation into luggage thefts by the very airport workers who are supposed to get bags safely onto planes. '' miami aviation director emilio t. gonzález said the insider theft cases ``are indeed the exception among the thousands of decent, hardworking employees at mia, and they have been prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law for their crimes. a cnn analysis of passenger property loss claims filed with the tsa from 2010 to 2014 shows 30,621 claims of missing valuables, mostly packed in checked luggage.
north korean leader kim jong un has backed out of next month's visit to moscow for world war ii anniversary celebrations, kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said thursday. ``we were informed of the decision via diplomatic channels,'' peskov said. ``the decision is connected with north korean domestic affairs.
( cnn ) the man who beat serial killer jeffrey dahmer to death inside a wisconsin prison says he did it because of dahmer's creepy sense of humor -- which included turning prison food into fake limbs covered with ketchup to resemble blood, the new york post reports. christopher scarver, who was sentenced to two life terms in prison for killing dahmer and another man at columbia correctional institution in 1994, said the confessed cannibal would leave the fake limbs around the prison where others would find them. he was shocked.
shanghai, china ( cnn ) volvo says it will begin exporting vehicles made in a factory in southwest china to the united states next month, the first time chinese-built passenger cars will roll into american showrooms. parent company geely automobile, which bought volvo in 2010, is seeking to prove that a chinese company can manage a global auto brand. the car will be one of four models produced in a manufacturing plant in chengdu that opened in 2013.
to register for a license plate auction, prospective car buyers like li must put down a deposit in exchange for disc containing software they can use to bid online. the auctions take place once a month on a saturday morning. to boost his chances, li upgraded the speed of his internet connection from 10 to 50 mbps but to no avail.
( cnn ) chile's calbuco volcano erupted again thursday, marking the third time since last week, the national service of geology and mining said. he lives in a rainy part of chile, which he described as like a garden of eden. the eruption is a first for many in the region.
venezuelan native maickel melamed, who is battling muscular dystrophy, completed the 26.2 miles just before 5 a.m. tuesday. he was the last participant to complete the race, cnn affiliate wcvb-tv reported. melamed was born with muscular dystrophy, which causes progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass throughout the body.
( cnn ) for the fifth year in a row in 2014, ambush attacks on police officers were the no. 1 cause of felonious deaths of law enforcement officers in the line of duty. nevertheless, google continues to market a smartphone application that lets lawbreakers pinpoint the location of police officers in the field. google's executives won't even discuss the subject with organizations representing law enforcement.
( the hollywood reporter ) andrew lesnie, the oscar-winning cinematographer who spent more than a decade collaborating with director peter jackson on the six ``lord of the rings ``and ``hobbit'' films, has died. he was 59. that movie opened friday in u.s. theaters.
( cnn ) lois lilienstein, co-star of ``sharon, lois & bram's elephant show'' -- the canadian preschool show that ran on nickelodeon during the early 1990s -- has died, aged 78. liz smith at 92. she joined sharon hampson and bram morrison to launch their singing trio in 1978.
( cnn ) bahamian r&b singer johnny kemp, best known for the 1988 party anthem ``just got paid,'' died this week in jamaica. the singer is believed to have drowned at a beach in montego bay on thursday, the jamaica constabulatory force said in a press release. he had not boarded the ship.
( cnn ) percy sledge, the r&b belter whose biggest hit, ``when a man loves a woman,'' became a cornerstone of soul music, died tuesday. he was 73. sledge died in baton rouge, louisiana, said stephanie price of the east baton rouge parish coroner's office.
the celebrity couple announced the arrival of their son, silas randall timberlake, in statements to people. ``silas was the middle name of timberlake's maternal grandfather bill bomar, who died in 2012, while randall is the musician's own middle name, as well as his father's first,'' people reports. it is the first baby for both.
lifetime has its follow-up to its ``unauthorized saved by the bell'' tv movie : the network is now taking on full house. the female-skewing cable network has greenlit ``the unauthorized full house story'' ( working title ), the hollywood reporter has learned. an air date for the ``full house'' tell-all has yet to be determined.
( cnn ) the powers of marvel's all-star superheroes go a bit wobbly in ``avengers : age of ultron. '' faced with the daunting prospect of topping the surprise and excitement of 2012's the avengers, the third highest-grossing film of all time, writer-director joss whedon mixes some brooding down-time in with the abundant spectacle. to be sure, series junkies will get their fix from the sheer massiveness of the exploits, but at least two of the big action scenes are lackluster, while the climax and resolution could have been worked out in more complex, less rote ways, so as to further increase intrigue and anticipation for ``avengers : infinity war parts 1 and 2,'' already scheduled for release in may of 2018 and 2019, respectively.
( cnn ) the seventh installment of the ``fast and furious'' franchise,'' ``furious 7'' is sure to draw fans curious about how the film handles the real-life death of co-star paul walker. but minus the off-screen tragedy, is ``furious 7'' worth racing to the theater ? he feels at home.
( cnn ) english actress michelle keegan has been named the sexiest woman in the world by british men's magazine fhm. the 27-year-old actress is best known for her roles on the bbc series ``ordinary lies'' and the long-running british soap opera ``coronation street. '' her ``coronation street'' character tina mcintyre was the show's first character to act as a surrogate, according to imdb.
( cnn ) a former u.s. navy aircraft carrier that survived a japanese torpedo strike and was a massive guinea pig for two atomic bomb blasts looks remarkably intact at the bottom of the pacific, according to federal researchers who surveyed the wreck last month with an underwater drone. the uss independence was scuttled in january 1951 during weapons testing near california's farallon islands. the ship sits upright with a slight list to starboard, according to noaa.
the magazine collected statistics comparing award-seat availability for the five biggest u.s. airlines on domestic routes. the top performer was southwest airlines, which offered the most award tickets, 11.9 million, and the highest percentage of award tickets -- 11.5 % of 103.1 million total passenger seats. ).
( cnn ) job one for newly appointed attorney general loretta lynch is to create a muscular federal response to months of national unrest over controversial police killings like that of freddie gray, 25. gray's death last week -- from a spinal cord injury he suffered while in police custody -- has touched off days of protests and rioting in baltimore. more about that in a moment.
a 14-year-old girl was returned to mexico from texas on wednesday after dna tests showed she's not related to a woman who claimed the teenager was her daughter. mexican federal police seized alondra luna nuñez on friday in the colonial city of guanajuato, in central mexico, believing she was the daughter of a mexican national living in houston. ``they stole my child.
( cnn ) the best part of the supreme court oral arguments about marriage equality was when justice ruth bader ginsburg alluded to s&m. ``it was her obligation to follow him. '' mary bonauto, the attorney arguing on behalf of the four same-sex couples who petitioned the supreme court, said in response : ``that's correct.
( cnn ) what do walmart, target, and now the koch brothers have in common with the american civil liberties union, colorofchange.org, and the center for american progress ? koch industries' recent announcement that it will ``ban the box'' -- i.e., remove from its job applications the check-box that asks about convictions -- is a big step forward in the movement to break down barriers to employment for job-seekers with records. ``ban the box'' doesn't prohibit background checks, it only postpones them until later in the hiring process.
( cnn ) the quaint town of dunblane, scotland, has been set abuzz by the wedding of tennis legend andy murray to his long-term girlfriend, kim sears. ``he's a hero. he's a superstar,'' added another.
after the new york area received a large amount of rain, four rainbows stretched across the early morning sky on tuesday. amanda curtis, ceo of a fashion company in new york, snapped the lucky shot. at first, she thought it was just one.
to be raped by your cousin's husband ; be jailed for adultery as your attacker was married ; to suffer the ignominy of global uproar about your jailing and assault, but be pardoned by presidential decree ; and then to endure the shame and rejection from a conservative society that somehow held you to blame. that's what happened to gulnaz, who was barely 16 when she was raped. she's now carrying the third child of her attacker, asadullah, who was convicted and jailed -- though this was then reduced.
on kabul's streets, you can easily find the uneasy legacy of america's longest war. the skill they once thrived off has left them isolated, and fearing reprisals. '' ``we are in prison in afghanistan,'' a fourth says.
this concept of ``how we digest images of war through mainstream media outlets,'' was what drove photographer simon brann thorpe to begin his project ``toy soldiers. '' this idea to create a fresh perspective drove him into the desert of western sahara, a long-disputed region of northwestern africa. social media.
exactly one week after being taken into police custody in baltimore, freddie gray died sunday under circumstances that are unclear. an attorney for gray's family alleges that police are involved in a cover-up. ``he lapsed into a coma, died, was resuscitated, stayed in a coma and on monday, underwent extensive surgery at shock trauma to save his life.
( cnn ) the baltimore mother who slapped her son several times and pulled him out of a protest told cnn on wednesday she wasn't concerned that she might be embarrassing her son. ``not at all,'' toya graham told cnn's ``anderson cooper 360 ˚'' in an interview that aired wednesday night. ``he was embarrassing himself by wearing that mask and that hoodie and doing what he was doing.
( cnn ) a new york jury deliberating the fate of the man charged with the 1979 killing of 6-year-old etan patz is struggling to reach a verdict. deliberations resumed on thursday, one day after new york supreme court justice maxwell wiley ordered the jury to continue efforts to reach a decision on the guilt or innocence of a bodega worker named pedro hernandez. hernandez confessed to police three years ago, but his lawyers said he made up his account of the crime.
( cnn ) james holmes made his introduction to the world in a colorado cinema filled with spectators watching a midnight showing of the new batman movie, ``the dark knight rises,'' in june 2012. holmes is accused of opening fire on the crowd, killing 12 people and injuring or maiming 70 others in aurora, a suburb of denver. holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea : not guilty by reason of insanity.
( cnn ) this weekend, millions of people are expected to tune in to watch two men beat each other up. the rocket rise of mma's premier organization, the ultimate fighting championship, has matched boxing's equally dramatic decline. in fact, the fan base of the ufc now rivals that of the world's most popular fighting sport : ice hockey.
that's the account one survivor of the deadly shipwreck gave to investigators, according to a statement released sunday by prosecutors in catania, italy. the bangladeshi migrant's description provides new details about what may have happened aboard the ship, which sent out a distress call in the dark of night saturday after a couple of days at sea. as rescuers approached, authorities say migrants on the boat moved to one side, hoping to be saved.
( cnn ) japan's space agency announced this week that the country would put an unmanned rover on the surface of the moon by 2018, joining an elite club of nations who have explored earth's satellite. the japan aerospace exploration agency ( jaxa ), divulged the plan to an expert panel, including members of the cabinet and the education, culture, sports, science and technology ministry on monday. japanese media estimates that the mission will cost in the region of ¥ 10 billion to ¥ 15 billion ( $ 83.4 million - $ 125 million ).
washington ( cnn ) the u.s. said tuesday that deploying warships to yemen to monitor nearby iranian vessels has given america ``options'' for how it could react to iran's behavior in the region. the warships are being deployed to monitor ships traveling from iran that could be trafficking arms to houthi rebels in yemen, u.s. officials told cnn, saying the move was also meant to reassure allies in the region. nothing was found.
dollar noted in a recent address to his congregants that the devil was attempting to discredit him in regards to his campaign seeking $ 300 from 200,000 people globally to help buy the luxury jet. in a newly posted five-minute clip on youtube, the atlanta-area pastor speaks to his followers at world changers church international, tackling his critics and allegations about tithes, his real name and reports alleging members of having to reveal their w2 statuses to come into the church's sanctuary. '' dollar preaches to loud applause.
( cnn ) president barack obama took part in a roundtable discussion this week on climate change, refocusing on the issue from a public health vantage point. after the event at washington's howard university on tuesday, obama sat down with me for a one-on-one interview. the president enrolled at occidental college in los angeles in 1979 ( he transferred to columbia university his junior year ).
( cnn ) five militants from the kurdistan workers' party were killed and another was wounded in clashes with turkish armed forces in eastern turkey, the country's military said saturday. four turkish soldiers also were wounded in the fighting that took place in the eastern city of agri, the armed forces said in a written statement. the kurdish separatists opened fire from a long distance, targeting turkish soldiers who were securing an area in agri ahead of a spring festival, cnn turk reported.
jakarta ( cnn ) an indonesian court has rejected a bid by two australian drug smugglers -- members of the ``bali nine'' -- to challenge their planned executions. andrew chan and myuran sukumaran are awaiting death by firing squad on indonesia's ``execution island'' for their role in a failed 2005 heroin smuggling plot. ``they can ask for amnesty from the president.
( cnn ) a bus collided with a fuel tanker in southern morocco on friday, a fiery crash that killed at least 35 people -- most of them children -- state and local media reported. the accident caused a fire that hollowed out the bus, leaving little more than its frame. debris scattered across the road, while smoke rose into the sky, videos posted to social media show.
the park is a supervolcano so enormous, it has puzzled geophysicists for decades, but now a research group, using seismic technology to scan its depths, have made a bombshell discovery. yellowstone's magma reserves are many magnitudes greater than previously thought, say scientists from the university of utah. most of it is in a newly discovered magma reservoir, which the scientists featured in a study published on thursday in the journal science.
olivo, 54, saw her opportunity when maduro visited anzoategui, the state where she lives. maduro, a former bus driver, drove a bus to a rally wednesday where he was meeting with supporters. ``marleni olivo,'' maduro said.
paris ( cnn ) six survivors of the paris kosher supermarket siege in january are suing a french media outlet for what they call dangerous live broadcasting during the hostage-taking. according to paris prosecutor's spokeswoman agnes thibault-lecuivre, the lawsuit was filed march 27 and a preliminary investigation was opened by the prosecutor's office wednesday. he was killed in the police operation to end the siege.
( cnn ) a helicopter crash saturday in malaysia killed six people, including the nation's former ambassador to the united states and a high-ranking member of the prime minister's staff, the malaysian state news agency bernama reported. prime minister najib razak ordered an investigation. pr1ma is an organization that develops housing in urban centers.
i wouldn't, and neither did ben affleck, who lobbied producers of a pbs show, ``finding your roots,'' to remove any reference to his great-great-great grandfather benjamin cole, a georgia slave owner in the mid-1800's, in an episode that looked at affleck's family history. ( affleck revealed cole's name wednesday night. affleck's attempt to alter the content of the program only publicly became known a few days ago after wikileaks released hacked emails revealing an exchange between gates and sony pictures chief michael lynton.
( cnn ) on thursday, president barack obama revealed that a u.s. drone strike had killed warren weinstein and giovanni lo porto, two aid workers held hostage on the afghanistan-pakistan border. al qaeda had sought to trade the two for prisoners held by the united states and an end to drone strikes. khomeini endorsed their action.
( cnn ) given that most people couldn't tell the difference between a copyright and a trademark, it usually takes something controversial, such as the washington redskins' refusal to change their name, to get people interested in trademark law. the slants are five asian-american musicians from portland, oregon, who pay homage to the'80s on stage -- and homage to their heritage in an ironic way. and more power to them.
( cnn ) sofia vergara's ex-fiance is speaking out about their dispute over frozen embryos created while they dated. in an op-ed published by the new york times on wednesday, nick loeb explained his rationale for fighting to keep the two female embryos he shares with the actress. ,'' he said.
aden is a city gripped by fear, desperation and want. saudi arabia began airstrikes on houthi rebels in yemen three weeks ago thursday. but aden remains a city not fully in the hands either of houthi rebels or forces loyal to the ousted government of president abdu rabu mansour hadi.
flight 448, which had been bound for los angeles, returned to seattle. the cargo hold is pressurized and temperature controlled. the plane was also only in the air for 14 minutes, alaska airlines said.
( cnn ) a gunman walked into a building on the campus of wayne community college in goldsboro, north carolina, on monday and shot the school's print shop operator, killing him, authorities said. the school was placed on lockdown, and the gunman remains at large. the victim, ron lane, was a longtime employee.
a smuggler in the libyan capital of tripoli laid bare the system for loading boats with poor and desperate refugees, during a conversation that a cnn producer secretly filmed. the conversation, recorded using a mobile phone, exposes the prices and incentives used to gather as many migrants as possible onto ships. an estimated 1,600 migrants have died so far this year on the dangerous mediterranean crossing, but still more wait to try to reach europe.
hungarian architect matyas gutai believes that water is the perfect material for keeping a house at a comfortable temperature. gutai built a prototype house in his hometown of kecskemet, south of budapest, with his high school friend milan berenyi, after years of research and development. the indoor temperature can also be modified using a monitoring system similar to central heating.
rome ( cnn ) the italian navy has boarded and retaken control of a fishing boat that had been seized hours earlier by gunmen off the coast of sicily, the italian military said friday. the boat, named airone, was intercepted some 90 kilometers ( 56 miles ) from the libyan port of misrata, according to a statement from the italian joint forces. ``they were armed.
co-star john stamos announced monday night on ``jimmy kimmel live'' that netflix has ordered up a reunion special, followed by a spinoff series called ``fuller house. '' the show will feature candace cameron bure, who played eldest daughter d.j. tanner in the original series -- which aired from 1987 to 1995 -- as the recently widowed mother of three boys. the show will be available next year, netflix said.
( cnn ) wednesday's game between the baltimore orioles and chicago white sox will be closed to the public, the orioles announced tuesday. the closed-door contest follows the postponements of monday's and tuesday's games against the white sox until a doubleheader scheduled for may 28 following unrest in baltimore. the game will be televised on the masn regional cable network.
( cnn ) as saudi forces pounded southern yemen with a fresh series of airstrikes wednesday, houthi rebels called for peace talks. the u.n.-sponsored talks should resume ``but only after a complete halt of attacks,'' houthi spokesman mohammed abdulsalam said in a facebook post. the previous round of talks between houthi rebels and the government of yemeni president abdu rabu mansour hadi failed in january after rebels attacked the president's personal residence and presidential palace in sanaa, the yemeni capital.
the kentucky wildcats' bid for perfection ended saturday night at the hands of the wisconsin badgers, who rallied for a tough 71-64 victory in the ncaa men's basketball final four at indianapolis. they will meet four-time national champ duke in monday night's title game. the blue devils dominated michigan state 81-61 in the first contest of the night.
jerome r. hunt, of hayward, california, climbed the fence on the south side of the white house complex about 10:25 p.m., said brian leary with the united states secret service. hunt is in custody and charges are pending, leary said. the package was being examined and later deemed to be harmless, a secret service source told cnn.
( cnn ) a term used by president barack obama and baltimore mayor stephanie rawlings-blake to characterize rioters has given new life to a debate over the word ``thug. '' ``of course it's not the right word, to call our children `thugs,''' baltimore city councilman carl stokes told cnn's ``erin burnett outfront. the president and the mayor are wrong, he said.
washington ( cnn ) judge jeffrey sutton doesn't have a lot of company on the appeals courts these days. sutton, who sits on the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals in cincinnati, penned the only recent appellate court decision to uphold state bans on same-sex marriage. the split helped pave the way for the u.s. supreme court to take up a case on tuesday that could ultimately decide whether gay and lesbian couples nationwide have a constitutional right to marry.
terrified foreigners hiding in police stations and stadiums. machete-wielding attackers hacking immigrants to death in major cities in south africa. as attacks against foreigners and their businesses rage on, killing at least six people this week, other nations in the continent are scrambling to evacuate their citizens from south africa.
garissa, kenya ( cnn ) the kenyan government says mohamed mohamud, also known by aliases dulyadin and gamadhere, is the mastermind of thursday's kenya university terror attack, according to a tweet from the country's interior ministry. al-shabaab, an al qaeda-linked militant group based in somalia, took responsibility for the attack, according to the u.s. embassy in nairobi. it offers a reward of 20 million kenyan shillings, which is about $ 215,000.
( cnn ) the death of freddie gray, which was the flashpoint for the protests and now the riots in baltimore, has raised again the questions surrounding police use of force, especially after the now-familiar video of officers arresting mr. gray and loading him into a police van. gray was arrested by police on april 12. the 25-year-old was carried in the van for 40 minutes and he was not properly buckled in, according to authorities.
( cnn ) a u.s. army soldier was killed wednesday in an attack in eastern afghanistan by an afghan national army gunman, a u.s. military official told cnn, shortly after an american official met with a provincial governor. a u.s. defense official didn't provide details about the attack in the city of jalalabad. but an afghan police chief told cnn that an afghan national army soldier shot at u.s. soldiers at a provincial governor's compound in jalalabad on wednesday.
but colorado's new belgium brewery and the folks at ben & jerry's are teaming up on a beer inspired by ice cream -- salted caramel brownie ice cream, to be precise. both companies have a history of social activism, and the new project will be no different, they say. not yet anyway.
( cnn ) suzanne crough, the child actress who portrayed youngest daughter tracy on the'70s musical sitcom ``the partridge family,'' has died. she was 52. tracy played tambourine and percussion in the traveling ``partridge family'' band.
( cnn ) bobbi kristina brown, the daughter of bobby brown and whitney houston, has ``global and irreversible brain damage,'' according to her grandmother. though the 22-year-old is no longer in a medically induced coma, she remains unresponsive, cissy houston said in a statement monday after visiting her granddaughter. she also has a tracheostomy in her throat, the source said.
( cnn ) let's start with a pop quiz ( space junkies can skip this test ). true or false, mercury is :. 1 ) the planet closest to the sun in our solar system.
( cnn ) since the headline-grabbing murder of american journalist james foley by isis militants eight months ago, the world has been regularly confronted with a modern form of an ancient, primally horrifying method of execution. british and american aid workers, japanese and american journalists, kurdish and syrian soldiers and egyptian and now ethiopian christians were among those who followed in foley's wake : their gruesome beheadings documented on camera and disseminated as propaganda to a global online audience. ).
after a preliminary framework for a possible nuclear deal was reached between iran and world powers, many here believe a final agreement is possible -- and most hope that widespread sanctions relief could be on the horizon. businesses are already gearing up for a time after the restrictions are lifted, and many people anticipate a huge boost to the economy. '' but this weekend, just a few miles down the road, iran's leaders were celebrating their war machine as the military held its annual national army day parade.
last weekend, as baltimore reacted to the death of freddie gray, the young man who died last week from a spinal cord injury he suffered while in police custody, major league baseball had a problem on its hands. the boston faithful are used to being in the heart of a city to watch sports. tuesday's game against the white sox : also postponed.
rome ( cnn ) a destination for the destitute, sicily is the ``promised land'' for thousands of migrants and refugees making the desperate journey from north africa to europe's mediterranean coast. more than 10,000 people have arrived from libya since last weekend alone, according to the italian coast guard. stories of death at sea and unimaginable suffering are nothing new in the waters between north africa and italy ; boat people have been arriving on italy's islands for more than a decade.
it was the morning after a night of unrest in johannesburg's alexandra township that saw foreign-owned shops looted and destroyed. mozambican emmanuel sithole was walking down a street when four south africans surrounded him. seven people have been killed in the latest round of xenophobic violence against poorer immigrants, many from south africa's neighbors.
fierce fighting has engulfed ramadi, which lies only about 70 miles ( 113 kilometers ) west of baghdad and is the capital of anbar province, iraq's sunni heartland. the politician said he was on a front line himself, armed with a machine gun. '' his plea for help comes the day after iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi met with u.s. president barack obama in washington to seek more support for the fight against isis.
( cnn ) on tuesday, a white police officer in north charleston, south carolina, was charged with murder for shooting an unarmed black man in the back. officer michael slager was arrested after raw video surfaced showing him firing numerous shots at walter scott as scott ran away from a traffic stop. but the man was shot like a runaway slave.
but he's increasingly serving himself at a cost to columbia university and new york presbyterian hospital. but sen. claire mccaskill, chairwoman of the senate's consumer protection panel, instead made him her chief example of the kind of snake oil salesmen that keep hoodwinking consumers into thinking there's a quick fix for their expanding waistlines. john oliver subsequently eviscerated oz on his hit hbo show ``last week tonight.
zaki-ur-rehman lakhvi, a top leader of the terrorist group lashkar-e-taiba, was released early friday from a jail in the pakistani city of rawalpindi, according to yahya mujahid, spokesman for jamaat-ud-dawa, a group with which lakhvi is affiliated. lakhvi was charged in pakistan in 2009, accused of masterminding the november 2008 terror attacks that left more than 160 people dead in mumbai, india's most populous city. lakhvi still faces trial in the case.
( cnn ) a california woman who was recording police activity said she was terrified when a deputy u.s. marshal walked toward her, grabbed her cell phone out of her hands and smashed it with his foot. the incident was recorded by another woman with a smartphone camera across the street. beatriz paez filed a complaint wednesday with police in south gate, just south of los angeles.
( cnn ) the victory of a 72-year-old former general, muhammadu buhari, in the nigerian elections represents a moment of maturity in west african politics. but the peaceful transition of power from president goodluck jonathan to president buhari is the first of its kind in history. the cancer of corruption has to be cut out.
experts have long thought that a particular kind of salt detected in martian soil could pull water vapor from the the planet's thin atmosphere into the soil at night and then keep it from freezing despite the extreme cold. researchers aren't saying they've seen direct evidence of brine hiding out in the martian night. but they say the new study -- based on a full year of monitoring of temperature and humidity conditions by the mars curiosity rover in gale crater -- does seem to bear the theory out.
( cnn ) north korea is in the headlines again. according to a wall street journal report thursday, chinese nuclear experts have told the united states that pyongyang may already have as many as 20 nuclear warheads. true, the reported chinese estimate of 20 warheads is large enough to constitute a nuclear ``arsenal.
( cnn ) novak djokovic extended his current winning streak to 17 matches after beating thomas berdych 7-5, 4-6, 6-3 in the rain-interrupted final of the monte carlo masters. tight. but djokovic broke twice early in the third set to surge to a 4-0 lead.
new york ( cnn ) new york state authorities have issued a health alert following a dramatic spike in hospital visits for synthetic marijuana-related emergencies. gov. andrew cuomo said friday that more than 160 patients in nine days have been rushed to hospitals across the state for adverse reactions to synthetic cannabinoid, known as ``spice'' or ``k2. mississippi health officials are also concerned that synthetic marijuana is on the rise.
( cnn ) an egyptian court sentenced the leader of the muslim brotherhood, mohamed badie, on saturday to death by hanging, along with 13 members of his group. the sentences will be appealed. the criminal court sentenced 36 other defendants to life in prison on charges of plotting terrorist attacks against state facilities.
( cnn ) this is a difficult but necessary thing to say : incidents of police-involved killings and assaults on unarmed african-americans are unlikely to end soon. the peaceful protests that were followed by outbreaks of violence in baltimore this week have underscored the danger of ignoring the crisis -- as frustration and impatience with the status quo boils over. the violent response of police officers to unarmed african-americans is a decades-long phenomenon that has too often been dismissed as ``race card'' politics and black grievance.
( cnn ) the cast of ``the breakfast crew'' escaped from principal richard vernon 30 years ago, but a draft script of the 1985 teen classic has just been found in a filing cabinet in the school district where it was filmed, the chicago tribune reported. ``it's a first draft of the screenplay by john hughes,'' wallace said. ``the breakfast club'' returns to theaters 30 years later.
``monty python and the holy grail,'' which premiered 40 years ago thursday, was the result. the budget was small -- about $ 400,000, half of it supplied by rock stars, including genesis and pink floyd. python member graham chapman was suffering from alcohol withdrawal.
and she's off to a good start. the comedian took a fake tumble on the red carpet tuesday night at the 2015 time 100 gala in new york -- right in front of fellow honorees kanye west and kim kardashian, who stepped around her as they moved down the line. ``it was the best.
``today in america, women earn on average 77 cents for every dollar men earn. and the gap is even greater for women of color. the new women warriors : reviving the fight for equal rights.
( cnn ) tuesday is equal pay day, the fictitious holiday marked by progressive women's groups as the point in the year women would have to work to make up for ``lost'' wages as a result of the so-called wage gap. in the wake of hillary clinton's presidential announcement, the ``holiday'' has special meaning. the new women warriors : reviving the fight for equal rights.
jeff green, then playing for the boston celtics, was looking forward to getting back to the hardwood. the physical revealed he had an aortic aneurysm near the left valve of his heart. '' green's now using his story to raise awareness of hidden heart risk.
beijing ( cnn ) amid tight security, a chinese court has convicted veteran journalist gao yu for revealing state secrets and sentenced her to seven years in prison. gao, 71, immediately said she would appeal, her lawyer mo shaoping told cnn friday. ``today's conviction is mainly based on a forced confession that she had since retracted,'' mo said.
the rates of myopia have doubled, even tripled, in most of east asia over the last 40 years, researchers say. several places like hong kong, singapore and taiwan have rates in the 80 %. in south korea, myopia rates among 20-year-olds have leaped from 18 % in 1955 to over 96 % myopia in 2011.
( cnn ) once hillary clinton's official announcement went online, social media responded in a big way, with terms like ``hillary clinton,'''' #hillary2016,'' and yes, even'' #whyimnotvotingforhillary'' trending. certainly, you couldn't go far on twitter ( even before clinton tweeted her announcement ), without an opinion or thought on her new campaign ( there were over 3 million views of her announcment tweets in one hour, and 750,000 facebook video views so far by sunday evening ). some tweeted their immediate support, with one word :.
( cnn ) a mammoth wave of snow darkens the sky over everest base camp. at least 17 people have been killed, with dozens injured and several missing -- likely buried beneath the snow and ice. at least 8,000 people were reported to have suffered injuries.
( cnn ) wikileaks founder julian assange has agreed to be interviewed by swedish prosecutors in london, his lawyer in sweden told cnn. assange has been holed up in the ecuadorian embassy in london since june 2012 to avoid extradition to sweden, where prosecutors want to question him about 2010 allegations that he raped one woman and sexually molested another. '' the australian national has not been charged and denies the claims.
( cnn ) two transportation security administration screeners have been fired after conspiring to grope attractive men at denver international airport, denver police said. here's how police say the scheme worked : when the male tsa officer noticed a man he found attractive, he would alert a female tsa officer. former tsa agent sentenced for recording coworker.
the online course verifies that i am knowledgeable to fly a plane under visual flight rules into the most highly restricted u.s. airspace in the country. although a ``no-fly zone'' over the white house has long existed, the sfra airspace was developed to protect the washington area further after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. an airspeed restriction begins at a 60-mile radius from the center of reagan national airport.
( cnn ) iran will sign a final nuclear agreement only if economic sanctions against the nation are removed on the first day of the deal's implementation, president hassan rouhani said thursday. but work on the agreement isn't finished. it will not even guarantee completion of the negotiations.
the microneedle patch, which resembles a small, round adhesive bandage, could bring polio vaccines to the doorsteps of the people that need it. by applying it to the skin and pushing down, the vaccine is delivered in a matter of minutes. it's been 60 years since a mass inoculation of jonas salk's vaccine began with school children in april, 1955 that caused polio cases in the united states to drop by almost 90 % over the course of two years.
the $ 16 million mary harvin transformation center was being built in a part of town where half the properties are vacant buildings or barren lots, where unemployment rates reach 25 % and poverty and despair is rampant. '' the project was to include about 60 senior citizen apartments and a community center. ``baltimore is a tinderbox.
( cnn ) if newly revised nypd training materials are approved by a federal judge, new cadets could be taking courses reminding them ``not to engage in racial profiling. '' the proposed training materials, overseen by appointed federal monitor peter zimroth, were submitted to manhattan federal court judge analisa torres on monday for approval. ``it is against the law.
muna is from buffalo in upstate new york. her family is among the dozens of americans caught in the crossfire of warring parties in yemen. for more than three weeks, neighboring saudi arabia has been conducting airstrikes in yemen.
( cnn ) supported by american intelligence and supplied with advanced u.s.-made weaponry, saudi jets began airstrikes in yemen late last month in the name of what the kingdom's washington ambassador described as ``restoring the legitimate government'' and protecting a ``yemeni constitution and elections. true, the ansarullah movement now benefits from iranian support. indeed, the obama administration appears to have abandoned yemen to saudi machinations.
shanghai, china ( cnn ) when china's biggest auto show opens in shanghai this week, the only models on display will be the ones with four wheels. gone, show organizers hope, will be the scantily-clad ``car babes'' that in previous years have posed provocatively on car hoods and sashayed through the aisles to draw crowds to the 9-day event. vehicle sales in china totaled 23.5 million units last year, almost a third more than in the united states.
so's bill murray, george clooney, scarlett johansson, jerry seinfeld, howard stern, tina fey, michael keaton and ray romano. on tuesday, ``the late show with david letterman'' announced some of the guests for the talk show host's final month of broadcasts. the last ``late show'' will air wednesday, may 20.
bangkok ( cnn ) thailand has lifted martial law, replacing it with it a controversial new security order granting sweeping powers to the ruling military junta. critics have expressed alarm at the move, with human rights watch's asia director brad adams saying it marked the country's ``deepening descent into dictatorship. '' martial law was lifted wednesday when the thai king bhumibol adulyadej approved a request from prime minister general prayuth chan-ocha to proceed.
fall river, massachusetts ( cnn ) former new england patriots star aaron hernandez looked on impassively wednesday as he was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole, a new low for a young man who once enjoyed a $ 40 million pro-football contract and now stands convicted in the 2013 murder of onetime friend odin lloyd. hernandez, 25, appeared to shake his head ``no'' earlier as jurors in the massachusetts trial found him guilty of first-degree murder. he was also found guilty of unlawful possession of a firearm and unlawful possession of ammunition.
the ghetto, and i'm talking class and not race, was on full display by monday. the protests started in response to the death of freddie gray in police hands. from the same pool, 200 will be shot and killed.
tripoli, libya ( cnn ) it took one somali woman seven months and 4,000 miles to trek to libya. she was arrested as she was sailing north and is now one of 350 migrants being held in a facility just outside tripoli. about one-third of the migrants are from eritrea on the east coast of africa.
( cnn ) a massive brawl involving two dozen people at a queens, new york, casino was captured on video friday night. the fight took place in the food court area of resorts world casino where approximately 300 people were still at the scene when police arrived, according to the new york police department. the brawl took place in front of fat tuesday, which opened at the food court friday.
( cnn ) we did it again, in another american city. '' you may be saying with some irritation, ``don't lump me in with them. the word ``we'' is one of the great american words.
( cnn ) it takes a village to raise a triathlete. ``partner up,'' the facebook status read. jae rockwell, the founder of my local women's fitness groups, women run the world, posted this mantra to help us keep ourselves accountable.
it had become my custom at 4 o'clock, when the city desk secretary left for the day, to move over to her spot to help answer the phones as the beat reporters called in to check out for the day. he answered, replaced the bell-like receiver on its hook and said to everyone in general and no one in particular, ``roosevelt is dead. housley said, ``clear the decks for action.
( cnn ) sen. elizabeth warren insists she's not running for president. but her description of a 2016 ``dream'' presidential candidate sounds a lot like, well, her. warren, during an appearance friday on cnn's ``new day,'' said she wanted to see someone willing to fight for the middle class and ``make washington work for families again.
washington ( cnn ) it's the mistake that hillary clinton won't make again : ignoring her gender. the low-key video she released on sunday announcing her run for the white house is filled with women -- young, old, black, white, asian and latina -- working in their gardens, taking care of their kids and getting ready for life in the working world. ``people are ready for a woman president.
( cnn ) hillary clinton is now officially a candidate for president -- and the never ending clinton story rumbles on. she started as the first lady that the right loved to hate, then the deceived wife, next a senator, then a candidate for president in one of the most dynamic primaries in history and finally, a secretary of state. and if hillary or jeb were to win two presidential terms, then in the 44 years from 1981 to 2025, 28 will have had a clinton or a bush in the white house.
( cnn ) after more than nine years of traveling through the solar system, nasa's new horizons spacecraft has sent back its first color image of pluto. the initial picture released on tuesday shows a couple of orange-tinged blobs : pluto and its largest moon, charon. the probe is due to make its closest approach to pluto on july 14.
as protests erupt nationwide after the death of freddie gray, a black man who suffered a severe spinal cord injury while in police custody, some local businesses in baltimore are banding together to show their support for the city, while others are left to rebuild or repair after monday's riot. 45 cvs workers still getting paid after riots shut down stores. the movement in baltimore is personal for dobson.
( cnn ) the university of florida and emory university are investigating allegations that zeta beta tau fraternity members disrespected wounded war veterans last weekend at panama city beach, florida, by spitting, urinating and pouring beer on them. ``they actually spit on me and my service dog as well, and that's just so disrespectful and it hurts. ``this is not representative of our students or of the university.
st. john, u.s. virgin islands ( cnn ) government officials are trying to track down vacationers who stayed at villas in the virgin islands who may have been exposed to a deadly pesticide. local officials said methyl bromide is suspected to have been used improperly several times in the u.s. virgin islands, in different parts of the island ; even the governor said his condominium complex was fumigated with it in 2013, without his knowledge. theresa devine and steve esmond and their two children fell gravely ill and suffered seizures ; two brothers, ages 14 and 16, remain in comas.
we are all familiar with the brutality of isis, the self-anointed islamic state, or boko haram, the nigerian terrorists who have pledged allegiance to isis. the jihadi chiefs have a strategy beyond the battlefield. killing the enemy, the men, is a tactic for winning battles and conquering territory.
but the gas station owner never made it on a flight back to his home hayward, california. family members have identified him as a victim killed in mortar strike last week in the southern yemeni city of aden. he is believed to be the first u.s. citizen killed in the current violence in yemen.
( cnn ) pope francis will visit cuba on his way to the united states in september, the vatican said wednesday -- a trip that will come months after he helped negotiate a diplomatic thaw between the two countries. '' ``we are waiting for him. francis will be the third consecutive leader of the roman catholic church to visit cuba.
``roots,'' the epic miniseries about an african-american slave and his descendants, had a staggering audience of over 100 million viewers back in 1977. now a&e networks are remaking the miniseries, to air in 2016. levar burton, who portrayed kinte in the original, will co-executive produce the new miniseries.
after all, this is a brutal organization that not only kills but seems to revel in doing so in ways designed to shock the world -- from the beheadings of journalists to burning a jordanian pilot alive. such moves are part of this murky group's propaganda and its deliberate efforts to manipulate information. first, isis is clearly about religion -- its version of radical islam -- but it is also about power.
( cnn ) the underwater search area for missing malaysia airlines flight 370 looks set to double in size. teams are scouring the depths of a remote part of the southern indian ocean for the remains of the passenger jet that disappeared more than a year ago with 239 people on board. the search of the current priority zone is expected to be completed in may.
( cnn ) in july of 2013, the oldest of jesus relics stories rose again when turkish archaeologists discovered a stone chest in a 1,350-year-old church that appeared to contain a piece of jesus' cross. ``we have found a holy thing in a chest. the true cross phenomenon begins with emperor constantine, the first roman emperor to convert to christianity.
last month he made science history. the altamura man became the oldest neanderthal to have his dna extracted by researchers. the cave explorers told researchers at the university of bari what they'd found, according to their report published in march in the journal of human evolution and phys.org.
( cnn ) the justices of the supreme court practice politics as much as law -- and that will be clearer than ever when the issue of same-sex marriage comes before the court on tuesday. public opinion on same-sex marriage has turned upside down since the supreme judicial court in massachusetts first legalized the practice in 2003. even the name of the issue has changed -- to marriage equality.
on wednesday, dc entertainment, warner bros. and mattel announced a partnership to launch dc super hero girls, featuring familiar superheroes and supervillains as ``relatable teens,'' according to a press release. ). '' tweeted kathleen e. kennedy.
henry louis gates stands accused of scrubbing part of a segment in his pbs documentary series ``finding your roots'' because the actor ben affleck put pressure on him. affleck's concern was that the segment would have aired his family's dirty laundry, which includes a slaveholding ancestor, benjamin cole. i was embarrassed.
( cnn ) a white police officer claims he feared for his life and is justified in killing an unarmed black man. this time the stage was set in north charleston, south carolina, a city of about 100,000 people. on tuesday, the officer was arrested on murder charges.
white sand beaches stained with black sludge, oil-choked waterways and wildlife, shuttered businesses, and front-lawn signs pleading for justice and help. the bp oil spill's legacy continues to haunt this region like a recurring cancer. independent research free of corporate and government influence in the gulf of mexico is critical.
spacex, the private space exploration company founded by billionaire elon musk, hopes to give it a try. but weather forced it to scrub monday's plan to launch. spacex said on twitter that tuesday at 4:10 p.m. et will be the next opportunity for the company to launch a two-stage falcon 9 rocket carrying an uncrewed cargo spacecraft called dragon on a flight from cape canaveral, florida, to the international space station.
( cnn ) a top al qaeda in the arabian peninsula leader -- who a few years ago was in a u.s. detention facility -- was among five killed in an airstrike in yemen, the terror group said, showing the organization is vulnerable even as yemen appears close to civil war. ibrahim al-rubaish died monday night in what aqap's media wing, al-malahem media, called a ``crusader airstrike. '' the al-malahem media obituary characterized al-rubaish as a religious scholar and combat commander.
( cnn ) seven minutes after an aurora, colorado, theatergoer called 911 to report a massacre in progress, suspect james holmes surrendered to police, a dozen dead bodies allegedly in his wake. the prosecution has said it will seek the death penalty. holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity.
the wooden vessel was called mecca -- after the holy city. we'd been given a secure route, charted for us by the djiboutian coast guard. it was almost double the distance of the direct route.
i'm syrian, and returning to syria wasn't an option -- going back means you either have to kill or be killed. while in istanbul, i discovered many facebook pages about illegal smuggling from turkey to italy by sea. they gathered 100 men and women in five buses and drove us to the smuggling point.
for the first time a majority, 53 %, favor its legalization, with 77 % supporting it for medical purposes. support for legalization has risen 11 points in the past few years alone. girl's seizures spur medical marijuana legislation in georgia.
( cnn ) russian president vladimir putin shrugged off repeated questions about the impact of western sanctions on his nation during a nationally broadcast annual q&a session. ``sanctions are sanctions,'' he said. ``it is a defense weapon.
( cnn ) talk show host dr. mehmet oz is defending himself against a group of doctors who accuse him of ``manifesting an egregious lack of integrity'' in his tv and promotional work and who call his faculty position at columbia university unacceptable. i will address this on the show next week. the episode will air on thursday afternoon in most markets, friday in others.
( cnn ) the listeria outbreak that prompted blue bell creameries to recall their entire product line dates to 2010, according to the centers for disease control. after weeks of gradual recalls, the company recalled all its ice cream, frozen yogurt, sherbet and other frozen treats sold in 23 states because they could be contaminated with listeria monocytogenes, the company said monday. three people in kansas have died in the past year and 10 people in four states have fallen ill from the bacteria believed to have come from blue bell products, the cdc said tuesday.
( cnn ) this week, social media heralded as #motheroftheyear toya graham, the baltimore single mom who pulled her son, who was holding a brick, away from the scene of a riot. ``why is america celebrating the beating of a black child ? but baltimore isn't on fire because of mothers like graham.
with tornadoes touching down near dallas on sunday, ryan shepard snapped a photo of a black cloud formation reaching down to the ground. he said it was a tornado. it could have been one the national weather service warned about in a tweet as severe thunderstorms drenched the area, causing street flooding.
( cnn ) eighteen-month-old twins drowned after their mother tried to fend off a bee and let go of their stroller, which rolled into a canal, arizona police said. alexis keslar was walking with her twin sons, silas and eli keslar, along a canal friday when she tried to repel a bee, police in yuma said. ``the stroller rolled away from her into the canal, with the boys belted in the seat,'' police said monday.
the desperate search for survivors from the country's worst natural disaster in more than 80 years continued. the number of people confirmed dead in nepal stands at 3,218, said nepalese ministry of home affairs spokesman laxmi dhakal. india has reported 56 deaths, and china another 20.
the 36-year-old passenger, gary terry of davenport, florida, was pronounced dead at the scene, florida highway patrol said. the driver, 24-year-old tavon watson of kissimmee, florida, lost control of the vehicle, the highway patrol said. he was hospitalized with minor injuries.
iran would reduce its stockpile of low-enriched uranium by 98 % and significantly scale back its number of installed centrifuges, according to the plan. ``if iran cheats,'' obama said, ``the world will know it. '' key points of the deal.
but there's something we never knew about bobby drake, aka iceman of the x-men. wednesday's issue of ``all-new x-men'' no. 40 reveals the truth : bobby is gay. '' iceman's outing happens in an unusual manner.
hong kong ( cnn ) four months after the end of the massive occupy protests that clogged hong kong's streets in a bid for greater voting rights, another confrontation is heating up in the former british colony. the flashpoint ?.
( cnn ) australia has recalled its ambassador to indonesia for consultations after two australians were among eight drug smugglers executed by firing squad early wednesday. australian prime minister tony abbott called the executions ``cruel and unnecessary'' because both men, andrew chan and myuran sukumaran, had been ``fully rehabilitated'' during a decade in prison. ``i failed.
( cnn ) president abraham lincoln never lost his ardor for the united states to remain united during the civil war. in his second inaugural address he attempted to salve the nation with an eloquent summation of his philosophy and plans for putting it into practice. but the carnage was now about to end.
five young men were arrested saturday in melbourne, australia, in what police called a major counterterrorism operation. two of the teens, 18 and 19, have been released ``pending further inquiries,'' australia's federal police said. sevdet besim, 18, was charged with conspiring to commit a terrorist act, and was denied bail saturday.
in january, president obama condemned the persecution of ``people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender,'' becoming the first president to utter the word in a state of the union address. '' sawyer asked. ``yes,'' jenner replied.
' the north korean defector calls the hollywood comedy ``vulgar,'' admitting he couldn't even watch the whole film. yet he is still sending thousands of copies across the border from south to north korea in balloons, determined his people will see the movie in which the leader kim jong un is assassinated on screen. he has company.
( cnn ) this is week two of an ongoing series : a catholic reads the bible this week covers the book of genesis, chapters 1-11. the first step was choosing a bible. i went with the version that i received for winning the religion award at rice memorial high school in south burlington, vermont.
( cnn ) by the time kim kardashian set out to ``break the internet'' in november last year, a photo by 23-year-old conor mcdonnell had already got there -- with a little help from kim's music superstar husband kanye west. mcdonnell is the self-taught photography star behind instagram's most liked photo, showing the couple's embrace at their may wedding, which has earned more than 2.4 milllion ``likes'' to date. ``good lighting for me makes a shot.
they are both necessary for the construction of the james webb space telescope ( jwst ), intended as the successor to the hubble instrument that has been operating in space for 25 years. it's going to be a tough act to follow. '' the webb telescope is a big probe.
( cnn ) the arizona police officer who slammed into an armed suspect with his patrol car told investigators he thought he was too far to take a shot at the man, so he chose the other option, cnn affiliate kvoa reported wednesday. officer michael rapiejko ran his car into mario valencia in february as the suspect carried a rifle he had just fired in the air. marana is just northwest of tucson.
( cnn ) she could stand on a strand of human hair, with room to spare. the microscopic polymer statue by south african sculptor jonty hurwitz, entitled trust, measured just 1/100th of a centimeter and had been called the ``smallest sculpture ever made. ``it was gone.
the 117 migrants, mostly from sub-saharan africa, arrived in the port of augusta, sicily, around 1p. m. tuesday, after being picked up by the tugboat off the coast of libya. last year at least 3,200 died making the journey.
established on the birthday of the american founding father, liberland -- the world's newest micronation -- is founded on a firm belief in liberty and noninterference from the powers-that-be. a tiny, 7 square-kilometer parcel of land, marked on maps as gornja siga, its territory abuts the danube on the border between serbia and croatia. the victim of a border dispute between serbia and croatia, it is claimed by neither side -- effectively a no-man's land.
he grazes under the hot sun, his massive head lowered to the ground, at the ol pejeta conservancy in central kenya. he's the last known male northern white rhino left in the entire world. rhinos are targeted by poachers, fueled by the belief in asia that their horns cure various ailments.
( cnn ) when drinkers in clayton's, a beachfront bar in south padre island, texas, belly up for a round of shots, bartender casey belue can usually guess what they'll order. fireball, which didn't exist in its current form a decade ago, is the fastest-growing big brand of liquor in america. ``for a whiskey, this is unprecedented.
kabul, afghanistan ( cnn ) a suicide bomber detonated his explosives near a group of protesters in eastern afghanistan on thursday, killing 17 people and wounding dozens more, police said. an afghan lawmaker taking part in the protests in the city of khost was among the 64 people wounded, said faizullah ghairat, the provincial police chief. taliban spokesman zabiullah mujahid denied his group was responsible for the attack.
( cnn ) discovery of the body of a young girl who may have been dead for weeks has led to the arrest of her teen sister -- herself a mother -- and a search for the girls' parents, who may be in california with five other children, police in north las vegas, nevada, said. the investigation began wednesday when the 4-month-old infant of the 17-year-old was taken to sunrise hospital and medical center in suburban las vegas, authorities said. she was taken to a juvenile facility.
boston ( cnn ) after weeks of dramatic testimony, jurors are set to begin deliberations tuesday in the trial of dzhokhar tsarnaev, who faces life in prison or the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 boston marathon. the defense and prosecution made closing arguments in the case on monday. ``he wanted to terrorize this country.
the jurors sent out two questions, which are scheduled to be addressed when they return to court wednesday morning. dzhokhar tsarnaev, the 21-year-old accused boston marathon bomber, faces life in prison or the death penalty. the blast killed a 23-year-old graduate student from china.
delhi ( cnn ) an international human rights group is calling for an independent investigation of the killings by police of 20 suspected red sandalwood smugglers in southeastern india. ``there must be a criminal investigation to determine whether the police used excessive force, and whether the killings amount to `fake encounters,' or staged extrajudicial executions'', said abhirr vp, of amnesty international india. '' those responsible should be brought to justice, according to amnesty.
( cnn ) the officer charged with murder in the shooting death of an unarmed black man in south carolina has been fired as anger continues to build around his case. a video shows officer michael slager, who is white, firing eight shots at 50-year-old walter scott as scott has his back to him and is running away. scott, who was unarmed, was struck five times.
( cnn ) the shootings' main similarity is that the officer was white and the victim was black and unarmed. outside of that, the highly publicized police shootings in ferguson and north charleston bear only mild resemblance. so what's changed between the shooting death of michael brown in ferguson, missouri, in august, and that of walter scott in north charleston, south carolina, last weekend ?
( cnn ) to allay possible concerns, boston prosecutors released video friday of the shooting of a police officer last month that resulted in the killing of the gunman. the officer wounded, john moynihan, is white. angelo west, the gunman shot to death by officers, was black.
( cnn ) the reserve deputy who shot a suspect with his firearm rather than his stun gun, and another deputy who can be heard cursing at the suspect after he was shot, were not in their normal states of mind because of the elevated stress of apprehending the suspect, according to a tulsa, oklahoma, investigator. tulsa police sgt. jim clark, who has been brought in to review the case, said tulsa county reserve deputy robert bates, 73, ``inadvertently'' shot eric courtney harris after harris -- a possibly pcp-addled felon who had days prior sold methamphetamine to an undercover officer -- ran from authorities after trying to sell an illegal handgun during an undercover sting. as deputies tried to handcuff harris, bates arrived with a pepper spray gun in hand.
( cnn ) two pieces of audio recorded in the immediate aftermath of a deadly police shooting in south carolina emerged monday. the voice of michael slager can be heard in both. the former north charleston police officer is charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old walter scott.
tulsa, oklahoma ( cnn ) the tulsa county deputy who shot and killed a man instead of using his taser now faces a manslaughter charge. video shows reserve deputy robert bates announcing he is going to deploy his taser after an undercover weapons sting on april 2, but then shooting eric courtney harris in the back with a handgun. ``he is not guilty of second-degree manslaughter.
( cnn ) an arizona police chief on wednesday supported an officer's decision to drive his car into an armed suspect, saying that although the move could have killed the suspect, deadly force was justified. video of the incident, recorded february 19 by the dashboard cameras of two marana police cars, shows one of the cars running into a suspect with who had a rifle in the city about a half hour from tucson. the suspect, 36-year-old mario valencia, survived and was hospitalized before being criminally charged.
( cnn ) thousands sought refuge in temporary shelters in south africa after mobs with machetes attacked immigrants in durban, leaving at least five people dead, an aid group said thursday. the attacks in durban killed two immigrants and three south africans, including a 14-year-old boy, authorities said. in the past, johannesburg has been the epicenter of anti-immigrant tensions.
rome ( cnn ) muslims who were among migrants trying to get from libya to italy in a boat this week threw 12 fellow passengers overboard -- killing them -- because the 12 were christians, italian police said thursday. italian authorities have arrested 15 people on suspicion of murdering the christians at sea, police in palermo, sicily, said. the original group of 105 people left libya on tuesday in a rubber boat.
( cnn ) the arizona police officer who intentionally slammed his car into an armed suspect previously faced an excessive force lawsuit in new york, according to court documents. officer michael rapiejko was with the new york police department from 2003 to 2006. two years after he left, he was one of the defendants in a suit filed by a man who alleged that rapiejko pointed a gun and threatened to shoot him and handcuffed and choked him in front of his family during a 2005 arrest.
( cnn ) the accidental death of a 2-year-old boy in milwaukee on sunday triggered a violent chain of events, eventually claiming the lives of three more people. it all started with a birthday party that little damani terry was attending. during the family gathering, he dashed out into the street and was struck and killed by a gmc van, according to milwaukee police.
( cnn ) after a weekend shipwreck off the coast of italy that may have killed hundreds of migrants, the international organization for migrants said monday that there may be three more migrant boats in distress in international waters. authorities still don't know the fate of many of the passengers, including children, who were on the large ship bound from libya to europe that capsized saturday night in the frigid waters of the mediterranean sea. but the italian coast guard said 28 people had been rescued and 24 bodies recovered.
' protesters rallied in baltimore late tuesday, the same day police released the names of the officers involved in the arrest of freddie gray. gray died of a spinal injury sunday, exactly one week after he was taken into custody. one man was arrested after crossing that barricade, but the protest was peaceful.
gray wavered in and out of a coma and died sunday, one week after his arrest. but gray is far from the only suspect who died under questionable circumstances after he was already in custody. police in vineland, new jersey, responded to a call of a disorderly person, and white was arrested and handcuffed.
( cnn ) at least two people were taken into custody as protesters upset over the death of freddie gray scuffled thursday evening with police on the streets of baltimore. '' the baltimore police department said the two were detained for disorderly conduct and destruction of property. gray died sunday, one week after he was arrested by baltimore police.
ebony dickens of east point, georgia, posted her facebook rant under the name tiffany milan, police said. ``all black ppl should rise up and shoot at every white cop in the nation starting now,'' said the post made on monday. ``i condone black on white killings.
in november 1942, the unguarded ss city of cairo was sunk by a german u-boat while carrying 296 civilians and cargo that included 100 tons of silver. the sinking was the stuff of legend. the city of cairo was bringing silver rupees from india to england as part of the war effort.
( cnn ) are you a boxing fan ? fancy the best seats in the house for saturday night's showdown in las vegas between floyd mayweather and manny pacquiao ? got a spare $ 361,894 for a couple of tickets ?
( cnn ) on thursday, npr -- headquartered in washington, just 40 miles away from baltimore -- ran its latest update on the urban turmoil that has erupted in the wake of the death of 25-year-old freddie gray because of still-unexplained spinal injuries that occurred while he was under police custody. '' a similar claim was made after ferguson's uprising in august of last year. '' let's be honest.
centennial, colorado ( cnn ) after months of intensive questioning, a jury has finally been picked for the trial of colorado movie theater massacre suspect james holmes. twelve jurors and twelve alternates are on the list. the group includes 19 women and five men.
( cnn ) robert boardwine's path to fatherhood was unconventional, but virginia's appeals court said tuesday he is legally entitled to be a part of his son's life. boardwine's friend, joyce bruce, had used his sperm and a turkey baster to get pregnant. she thought after she learned she was with child that they should just be friends.
the 21-year-old golfer equaled tiger woods' 1997 record winning score of 18 under par to realize his childhood ambitions of donning the green jacket on sunday as he swept through the field to become masters champion at augusta. she's the funniest part of our family,'' he said. '' he asked.
every year, denver teacher kyle schwartz passes out post-it notes to her third grade students and asks them to complete the sentence, ``i wish my teacher knew..'' many of the students she teaches at doull elementary just wish they had something in common with her, that she knew soccer or video games. '' and other who has big hopes for the future : ``i want to go to college. one student just wants more attention from the teacher.
( cnn ) charlotte dujardin says she is ``living the dream'' as she cements her status as a dressage legend. dujardin and valegro won their their second consecutive reem acra fei world cup dressage title in las vegas at the weekend -- a trophy to sit alongside olympic gold and the world and european titles. ``valegro just loves his job,'' said dujardin.
the world's leading showjumping and dressage horses have reached las vegas for this week's world cup finals. the flights are over and they're in las vegas to work. vegas is home to the finals for the sixth time since first hosting showjumping in 2000.
a japan railway maglev train hit 603 kilometers per hour ( 374 miles per hour ) on an experimental track in yamanashi tuesday, setting a decisive new world record. a spokesperson said the train spent 10.8 seconds traveling above 600 kilometers per hour, during which it covered 1.8 kilometers ( 1.1 miles ). that's nearly 20 football fields in the time it took you to read the last two sentences.
( cnn ) two cnn heroes are among the earthquake survivors in kathmandu, nepal. and they are struggling in the aftermath. anuradha koirala, who rescues victims of sex trafficking, has a rehabilitation center in kathmandu that is home to 425 young women and girls.
the university of nebraska at omaha is getting a new $ 81.6 million stadium for its hockey, basketball and volleyball teams. thump. an omaha taco shop has teamed up with the university to shoot tacos into the stands at sporting events.
phoenix, arizona ( cnn ) nearly 12 million parents in the united states currently are raising kids on their own. nominations are open for cnn heroes 2015. tiffany montgomery, 48, was a newly single mom when she was diagnosed with stage-4 breast cancer.
many schools face high dropout rates, after-school programs are being eliminated and students are failing. those at-risk children are ones that chad bernstein is trying to help through his nonprofit, guitars over guns. nominations are open for cnn heroes 2015.
in 2003, when the massachusetts supreme court became the country's first to legalize same-sex marriage, less than 30 % of religiously affiliated americans supported gays' and lesbians' right to wed. by 2014, that number had climbed to 47 %, according to a survey conducted by the public religion research institute. that's more than the 45 % who said they opposed same-sex nuptials.
he had tickets to travel to nepal for his child's birth from a surrogate mother, but now he has no choice but to wait in his native israel for news. '' nepal is a popular place for israeli couples to have surrogate children. ziv's first child, a 15-month-old daughter, was born to a surrogate mother in nepal.
seoul ( cnn ) north korean leader kim jong un is continuing to rule with an iron fist, having ordered the execution of about 15 senior officials so far this year, according to an assessment by south korean intelligence agents, a lawmaker who attended a closed briefing said. cnn can not independently confirm the executions. north korea is one of the most closed societies in the world.
( cnn ) last week, california gov. jerry brown ordered mandatory statewide restrictions on water use for the first time in the state's history. as it has in the past, california is leading the way in recognizing that population and economic growth has to respect the physical limits imposed by planet earth. is the california drought a consequence of climate change ?
( cnn ) the last time frank jordan spoke with his son, louis jordan was fishing on a sailboat a few miles off the south carolina coast. the next time he spoke with him, more than two months had passed and the younger jordan was on a german-flagged container ship 200 miles from north carolina, just rescued from his disabled boat. he was dead in the water.
( cnn ) in 1944, 16-year-old yong soo lee of taegu, korea, was lured by a friend of hers to meet with an older japanese man. the man took the two of them, and three other teenage girls, by train, then ship, to taiwan. there, the girls were forced into sexual slavery, serving four to five japanese soldiers every day for a year.
recently, i talked about marriage with a group of journalism students from my alma mater, kent state university. a culture rich in divorce. in the united states, almost 42 million adults have been married more than once.
( cnn ) as ash from chile's calbuco volcano spread east into argentina, geologists warned of the potential for more activity friday. the volcano has already erupted twice this week, spewing ash to a depth of about 23 1/2 inches ( 60 centimeters ) in some places, according to the ministry of interior and public safety. new advisories say airborne ash could reach an altitude of 12,000 feet.
( cnn ) anthony sideri hit rock bottom while wrapped in a dirty blanket on the floor of a jail infirmary bathroom in middleton, massachusetts. he was 25, shivering, sweating, throwing up and going through the full withdrawals of heroin. he had just robbed a bank after shooting up heroin all day.
( cnn ) nasa says its messenger space probe crashed into mercury on thursday after running out of fuel, ending a nearly 11-year journey that provided valuable data and thousands of photos. mission controllers at the johns hopkins university applied physics laboratory ( apl ) in laurel, maryland, confirmed the probe slammed into the surface of mercury, as anticipated, at 3:26 p.m. edt, nasa told cnn in an email. spacecraft to make death dive into mercury.
( cnn ) it has all the key points you'd expect on a birth certificate -- baby's weight, length and date of birth confirmed with an official insignia. the difference here is the governing authority's stamp : the islamic state in iraq and syria. last summer, isis fighters swept through the iraqi city of mosul.
washington ( cnn ) supreme court justices appeared divided tuesday during historic arguments over the constitutionality of gay marriage, with justice anthony kennedy returning to a familiar role as the court's pivotal vote. ``this definition has been with us for millennia,'' he said. '' he expressed concern about closing off the debate currently going on in the states.
( cnn ) yemeni officials said saudi airstrikes targeting a military base on tuesday hit a nearby school, injuring at least a half dozen students. the information came from two officials with the governor's office in ibb province, where the school is located, as well as houthi sources from the rebel group that is fighting for control of the country. '' he said.
the migrant crisis that has suddenly drawn hundreds of journalists to sicily has been brewing for years, but in the past 10 days, with as many as 1,600 deaths in the mediterranean, suddenly minds are focused -- for now. it was late at night in the besieged city of misrata. hundreds of african migrants were caught between the libyan civil war ( back then some optimistically called it a ``revolution'' ) and the deep blue sea.
lampedusa, italy ( cnn ) the cramped galley of the ship is filled with the smell of fresh garlic frying in olive oil. gaetano cortese, a tall, thin, sunburned 27-year veteran of italy's guardia di finanza ( finance police ) is waxing eloquent on his favorite subject : food. more than 350 people died in that disaster.
kathmandu, nepal ( cnn ) rescue crews and residents in nepal early sunday began the desperate search for survivors after a magnitude-7.8 quake near the capital of kathmandu a day earlier flattened homes, buildings and temples, causing widespread damage across the region and killing more than 1,800 people. whole streets and squares in the capital of more than 1 million people were covered in rubble. at least 17 people were reported killed on mount everest, where the quake caused multiple avalanches.
( cnn ) erica kinsman, a former florida state university student who has accused star football player jameis winston of rape, has filed a lawsuit against the heisman trophy-winning quarterback, her lawyer said thursday. kinsman has said winston raped her in december 2012. winston has said the sex was consensual.
( cnn ) the lawyer for a baltimore community activist whose arrest was broadcast live on cnn said thursday morning that his client had been released from jail. as viewers watched, joseph kent held his hands up and walked in front of a phalanx of police tuesday night after a citywide curfew had started. he was still trying to get in touch with his client after kent was released.
( cnn ) pop star taylor swift, who has built an intense bond with her fans by sharing personal details of her life, revealed some sobering news thursday : her mother has cancer. the singer did not divulge the nature or severity of the cancer, saying ``i'd like to keep the details of her condition and treatment plans private. '' andrea swift, 57, who years ago quit her job as a mutual fund marketing executive to raise swift and swift's younger brother, austin, has joined her famous daughter on tour and in several of her videos.
( cnn ) sarah brady, who with her husband, james brady, pushed for stricter gun control laws, including the brady handgun violence prevention act, died friday, her family said. brady, 73, died of pneumonia, the family said. he died in august.
baghdad, iraq ( cnn ) izzat ibrahim al-douri, a former top deputy to saddam hussein and more recently a key figure in sunni extremist groups battling the iraqi government, has been killed in a security operation in that country, iraqi state-run television reported friday. al-douri was the highest-ranking member of hussein's regime to evade capture -- the ``king of clubs'' in a deck of playing cards used by american troops to identify the most-wanted regime officials. he also was a man thought to have led the post-hussein sunni extremist group naqshbandi army.
hong kong ( cnn ) chinese president xi jinping and indian prime minister narendra modi are two dynamic leaders at the helm of the world's two most populous nations. and one is particularly vocal about making his mark on history. ``history has been created today,'' he said.
nairobi, kenya ( cnn ) kenyan deputy president william ruto on saturday gave the united nations' refugee agency three months to relocate refugees from the dadaab camp -- the world's largest -- to somalia, or ``we shall relocate them ourselves. '' ``the way america changed after 9/11 is the way kenya will change after garissa,'' ruto said in nyeri, according to a statement from his office. al-shabaab gunmen stormed garissa university college in eastern kenya this month, killing 147 people.
( cnn ) nobel literature laureate guenter grass, best known around the world for his novel ``the tin drum,'' has died, his publisher said monday. he was 87. german media are reporting he died of pneumonia.
he became a spiritual leader and celebrity icon with a long list of famous followers and friends. but now, the bikram brand is in jeopardy, with some yoga studios dropping his name after the guru was accused of rape or sexual assault by six of his former students. women love me,'' he said.
the u.s. military said this week it has made great progress in its effort to develop a self-steering bullet. in february, the ``smart bullets'' --.50 - caliber projectiles equipped with optical sensors -- passed their most successful round of live-fire tests to date, according to the defense advanced research projects agency, or darpa. in the tests, an experienced marksman ``repeatedly hit moving and evading targets,'' a darpa statement said.
( cnn ) in russia's tightly-managed democracy, where being an opposition politician can seriously damage your health, chances to question the country's leader are rare. president vladimir putin cuts an isolated figure, closely guarded behind the walls of the kremlin, traveling to-and-fro by helicopter or high-speed motorcade. it is direct access to the russian leader, or at least as direct as most russians will ever get.
( cnn ) greenpeace activists have climbed aboard a shell oil rig to protest the company's plans to drill in the arctic near alaska. the six protesters used ropes and harnesses monday to scale the huge platform in the pacific ocean, tweeting images of their daunting climb as they went. the environmental activists caught up with it about 750 miles northwest of hawaii, greenpeace said.
president obama briefly met his cuban counterpart, raul castro, on friday night at a dinner for the dozens of latin american leaders convening in panama city for the summit of the americas. this was historic. the two nations have barely been on speaking terms -- officially -- for more than 50 years.
( cnn ) the solar impulse 2, the experimental plane attempting to fly around the world without using a drop of fuel, has been grounded by the weather in china. what was supposed to be an overnight pit stop in the southwestern city of chongqing has now stretched into a two-and-a-half week stay. ``the airplane is ready.
( cnn ) freddie gray did not get timely medical care after he was arrested and was not buckled into a seat belt while being transported in a police van, baltimore police said friday. police commissioner anthony batts told reporters there are no excuses for the fact that gray was not buckled in as he was transported to a police station. five days after gray's death and amid ongoing protests, police officials acknowledged mistakes were made during and after his arrest.
wei tingting, wang man, zheng churan, li tingting and wu rongrong were freed from the haidian detention center on the outskirts of beijing late monday. the five activists on women's rights -- aged from 25 to 32 -- were picked up by police in three different cities just before march 8, the international women's day. they had been planning a campaign against sexual harassment on public transportation.
( cnn ) spacex on tuesday launched a two-stage falcon 9 rocket carrying an uncrewed cargo spacecraft called dragon on a flight from cape canaveral, florida, to the international space station. that was the easy part. dragon enroute to space station.
( cnn ) a columbia university student who was accused of rape is suing the new york city school for allowing his accuser to publicly brand him a ``serial rapist'' according to the lawsuit, paul nungesser was cleared of responsibility in emma sulkowicz's 2013 rape claim, as well as others that came to light after sulkowicz went public with her allegations in various media interviews. her case drew national attention after she started carrying a mattress around campus to protest the school's handling of the complaint, saying she hoped to show how ``flawed'' the university disciplinary system is when it comes to sexual misconduct cases. kessler also declined to comment on the lawsuit.
( cnn ) the arrest and death of freddie gray in baltimore has sparked protests and accusations of police brutality. but it's unclear how gray, who was arrested on a weapons charge april 12, suffered a severe spinal cord injury that led to his death seven days later. he ``gave up without the use of force,'' baltimore deputy police commissioner jerry rodriguez said last week.
( cnn ) the people of nepal are still trying to recover from two major earthquakes and a mudslide. we have vetted a list of organizations working in nepal that have created specific funds for relief efforts, including :. -- nepal red cross society.
however, officials say china and other nations are rapidly expanding the size and scope of their own submarine forces. and, according to a report by the center for strategic and budgetary assessments, the u.s. must rethink the role of manned submarines and prioritize new underwater detection techniques. '' darpa says the so-called drone ships will be 132 feet long and likely cost about $ 20 million, significantly less than the billion-dollar manned warships currently in use.
( cnn ) feidin santana, the man who recorded a south carolina police officer fatally shooting a fleeing, unarmed man, told cnn on thursday night he was told by another cop to stop using his phone to capture the incident. he believes scott was trying to get away. scott was black.
on monday, wayne county prosecutor kym worthy announced charges of assault and mistreatment of a prisoner against william melendez. he's the 49-year-old former inkster, michigan, police officer who is seen in police car dashcam video grabbing the unarmed motorist, floyd dent, around the neck while he lay on the ground and punching him several times in the head. ``the alleged police brutality in this case can not and will not be tolerated,'' worthy said.
boko haram has killed thousands in the nation's northeast by attacking villages, schools, churches and mosques. it has also kidnapped students, including more than 200 schoolgirls abducted in april last year. the militants have attacked relentlessly for six years, sending 192,000 people seeking shelter in cameroon, niger and chad.
sao paulo, brazil ( cnn ) throngs of protesters packed the streets of major brazilian cities on sunday, pushing for the impeachment of president dilma rousseff. fueled by mounting anger over a corruption scandal that has implicated politicians in rousseff's party, demonstrators chanted ``out with dilma'' and ``time for change. '' police estimated that 275,000 demonstrators marched in sao paulo.
( cnn ) in 2001, the taliban wiped out 1700 years of history in a matter of seconds, by blowing up ancient buddha statues in central afghanistan with dynamite. now cyark, a non-profit company founded by an iraqi-born engineer, is using groundbreaking laser scanning to ensure that -- at the very least -- incredibly accurate digital versions of the world's treasures will stay with us forever. ``it demolished a whole mud city.
tokyo ( cnn ) a former school principal in japan says he paid for sex with more than 12,000 women -- some of them girls as young as 14 -- during repeated visits to the philippines over more than a quarter of a century, according to police. now, at the age of 64, he's facing criminal charges. japanese police say they arrested the man, yuhei takashima, on wednesday over allegations he photographed an obscene act with a girl of 13 or 14 and produced pornography in a hotel room in manila, the philippine capital.
( cnn ) authorities in south carolina have released dash cam video in connection with the fatal shooting of walter scott, but the footage does not show the actual shooting. video from the patrol car of north charleston's michael slager shows an initial traffic stop and early interactions between the officer and scott. slager approaches scott's vehicle.
( cnn ) when 65 cases of 20-year-old pappy van winkle -- one of the rarest and most expensive bourbons in the world -- were reported missing from a kentucky distillery in october 2013, it was the crime heard round the whiskey-drinking world. franklin county sheriff pat melton, the man leading the investigation into the estimated $ 26,000 in missing pappy, said at the time that the high-end heist was ``indicative of an inside job. until now.
( cnn ) jon reiter is no stranger to mount everest -- its world-record height, its prestige, its challenges. '' jon reiter told cnn on sunday morning that 17 people had been killed on the mountain. the indian army's everest expedition evacuated the bodies of 13 mountaineers from a base camp who had been preparing to scale the mountain, spokesman col. rohan anand said saturday.
panama city, panama ( cnn ) ending a decades-long standstill in u.s.-cuba relations, president barack obama met for an hour saturday with his cuban counterpart raul castro, the first time the two nations' top leaders have sat down for substantive talks in more than 50 years. obama set to test engagement doctrine with cuba in panama. the long history between the u.s. and cuba.
perhaps the great jazz and rock music scene in denmark is for you ? it's not just the fun activities that make locals and travelers to those countries happy, according to the third world happiness report, released by the sustainable development solutions network for the united nations on april 23. switzerland.
charleston mayor joseph riley comes by to pay his respects and show support for the scott family. the stress of the past week since scott was fatally shot in the back by a north charleston police officer michael slager is too much. '' meanwhile, police continue to investigate the incident in which scott ran from his car after a traffic stop then was shot while fleeing from slager.
( cnn ) much of the world has been stunned by the huge increase of migrant deaths in the mediterranean this year, increasing the number of deaths at sea by a factor of 30 compared to the same time last year. almost all the deaths have occurred in the perilous central mediterranean crossing from libya to italy. the flows of migrants across the mediterranean are unlikely to stop -- italian authorities estimate that up to 200,000 migrants in libya are waiting to cross, following 170,000 refugees and migrants who arrived in italy last year.
( cnn ) isis operatives have executed two groups of prisoners, believed to be ethiopian christians, in libya, according to a video released sunday by the terror network's media arm. the ethiopian government confirmed monday that 30 of its citizens were among the two groups, according to the ethiopian news agency. one group is beheaded on a beach along the mediterranean sea, while the other group is shot in southern libya, hundreds of miles away.
( cnn ) several of the world's worst terrorist groups, like isis and al-shabaab, aim to create societies governed by strict, distorted versions of sharia law. for example, most victims of isis are fellow muslims who refuse to go along with the isis worldview and ruthless tactics. the latest came friday, when an italian prosecutor revealed that a network of pakistanis associated with al qaeda talked about attacking the vatican back in march 2010.
the ousted president was convicted on charges of violence and inciting violence and sentenced to 20 years in prison for the torture of protesters outside the presidential palace in december 2012. but he was acquitted of murder in the deaths of protesters. all 14 co-defendants were also convicted of violence and inciting violence, and all were also acquitted of murder.
cairo ( cnn ) an egyptian court has sentenced 71 people to life in prison for their role in the august 2013 burning of a christian church in the giza province village of kafr hakim, state news reports. morsy was pushed out by egypt's military. but he was acquitted of murder in the deaths of protesters.
( cnn ) more than 22 months ago, the body of odin lloyd was found in an industrial park in north attleboro, massachusetts. lloyd had been shot seven times near a pile of construction waste. days after he was found dead, then-nfl star aaron hernandez was arrested and charged with murder.
( cnn ) working as a warden in rwanda's volcanoes national park, home to the endangered mountain gorilla, edwin sabuhoro was determined to do whatever was necessary to protect the animals he was committed to defend -- including putting himself in harm's way. the mission was successful and the culprits were put to prison. '' he says.
instead, every culture, every generation, remakes jesus in its own image. a blonde-haired, blue-eyed savior when america was mostly anglo-protestant, at least in hollywood's eyes. an androgynous, meek-and-mild messiah during the anything-goes 1970s.
in neolithic times trepanation -- or drilling a hole into the skull -- was thought to be a cure for everything from epilepsy to migraines. it could even have been a form of emergency surgery for battle wounds. at 30 angstroms -- a unit of measurement equal to one hundred millionth of a centimeter -- an obsidian scalpel can rival diamond in the fineness of its edge.
( cnn ) like phone booths and typewriters, record stores are a vanishing breed -- another victim of the digital age. camelot music. virgin megastores.
which is why the work of ernst haas is so striking. haas, one of the 20th century's great photojournalists and image-makers -- an early member of the great magnum photos cooperative who was famous enough in his prime to have been the subject of a museum of modern art exhibit in 1962 -- was also a regular on movie sets. it was a necessity in those early days, said john jacob, the editor of a new book of haas' movie photography, ``ernst haas : on set.
( cnn ) an oklahoma reserve sheriff's deputy accused of fatally shooting a man he says he meant to subdue with a taser pleaded not guilty tuesday to a charge of second-degree manslaughter. at the hearing, the judge granted robert bates permission to go to the bahamas for a family vacation. that decision prompted a response from the family of eric harris, the man bates killed.
( cnn ) just eight months ago, a young woman named fatu kekula was single-handedly trying to save her ebola-stricken family, donning trash bags to protect herself against the deadly virus. today, because of a cnn story and the generosity of donors from around the world, kekula wears scrubs bearing the emblem of the emory university nell hodgson woodruff school of nursing in atlanta, where she's learning skills she can take back home to care for her fellow liberians. ``she gets nursing.
``he was sneaky,'' says shelby. ben, now 34, and shelby, a newly minted 30-year-old, were married and raising little maeve, 3, and baby hazel, 3 months, in caledonia, michigan, when life suddenly turns upside down. '' ``it'' turned out to be an intramedullary glioblastoma, a highly aggressive form of brain cancer.
( cnn ) whether a patient is in the hospital for an organ transplant, an appendectomy or to have a baby, one complaint is common : the gown. they are disempowering,'' said camilla mcrory of olney, md. the gowns are among the most vexing parts of being in the hospital.
baltimore, maryland ( cnn ) protesters angry over the death of freddie gray got into physical altercations with police saturday night in downtown baltimore near the city's famed baseball stadium. at least five police cars were damaged by people who smashed windows and jumped on them. mayor stephanie rawlings-blake said she was profoundly disappointed by the violence, adding that 95 % of the protesters were respectful but a ``small group of agitators intervened.
from cutting diamonds to preserving endangered sites, all the way to building terrifying weapons and turning your eyes from brown to blue, there is apparently no end to the list of applications for laser. swiss physicist jean-pierre wolf is working on yet another impressive addition to that list : using focused laser beams to affect the weather. how does laser actually affect the weather ?
( cnn ) isis on wednesday released more than 200 yazidis, a minority group whose members were killed, captured and displaced when the islamist terror organization overtook their towns in northern iraq last summer, officials said. most of those released were women and children ; the rest were ill or elderly, said rassol omar, a commander in the peshmerga force that defends northern iraq's semi-autonomous kurdish region. osman said 217 yazidis were released.
( cnn ) the attorney for a suburban new york cardiologist charged in what authorities say was a failed scheme to have another physician hurt or killed is calling the allegations against his client ``completely unsubstantiated. '' appearing saturday morning on cnn's ``new day,'' randy zelin defended his client, dr. anthony moschetto, who faces criminal solicitation, conspiracy, burglary, arson, criminal prescription sale and weapons charges in connection to what prosecutors called a plot to take out a rival doctor on long island. he was released after posting $ 2 million bond and surrendering his passport.
( cnn ) editor's note ( july 8, 2015 ) -- questions have arisen about the identity of the girl who dr. sanjay gupta helped operate on during a week in nepal in the aftermath of a devastating earthquake. gupta helped doctors at bir hospital in kathmandu perform a craniotomy in a makeshift operating room on a young patient as described in this story ; it is the identity of the patient that is in question. ``she was badly crushed.
hanging in his workshop gordon has a full suit of armor plating, cape and cowl -- matte black and built to stop a knife. gordon has an alter ego : the dark knight himself, batman. gordon says his calling came five years ago when he began experimenting with cosplay.
washington ( cnn ) a year after isis became a household name in america, using brutality and savvy propaganda to challenge al qaeda and its affiliates for jihadist adherents, u.s. prosecutions of would-be recruits have exploded. the flurry of arrests -- at least 25 people have been detained since january -- is a sign that complicated, manpower-intensive investigations begun when isis started seizing swaths of territory a year ago are finally being completed. but they also highlight the unique challenges that isis poses in comparison with al qaeda, which has attracted fewer u.s.-based recruits.
the magnitude-7.8 earthquake has killed more than 1,800 people, and the death toll is expected to rise. the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies said its volunteers and staff were aiding rescue efforts and providing first aid to the injured. reports from nepal indicated that hospitals were overflowing with patients and suffering from shortages.
isis claimed to have executed that many soldiers captured in june outside camp speicher, a fortified iraqi base near tikrit. a total of 47 bodies have been exhumed from two of the 11 mass graves discovered in tikrit, an iraqi government official said tuesday. hundreds are believed to have been executed by isis in june 2014.
his survival is unusual, as experts say it's rare for injured people who are trapped to hold out for longer than 72 hours after a disaster. the man, rishi khanal, was saved after a french search and rescue team found him under the rubble on the outskirts of kathmandu, the capital, around noon tuesday, said pushparam k.c., a spokesman for the armed police force of nepal. the team used specialized gear that detects signs of life, he said.
as eight of mary jane veloso's fellow death row inmates -- mostly foreigners, like her -- were put to death by firing squad early wednesday in a wooded grove on the indonesian island of nusa kambangan, the filipina maid and mother of two was spared, at least for now. '' supporters were ``overjoyed'' with the news. veloso was arrested in 2010 after a flight from malaysia to indonesia when $ 500,000 worth of heroin was discovered in the lining of her luggage.
for the second night in a row, protesters peacefully dispersed wednesday night after a 10 p.m. curfew meant to prevent riots that tore up the city two days earlier. more than 100 people were arrested in new york during a ``nyc rise up & shut it down with baltimore'' rally wednesday night, new york police said. demonstrations are planned for thursday in cincinnati, cnn affiliate wxix said.
denver police report nine arrests in wednesday's demonstrations. the charges include assault of a police officer, robbery, resisting police, disobedience to lawful orders, obstructing roadways, and interference. ( cnn ) -- in cities across the united states, marchers took to the streets to show support for protesters in baltimore and to complain about police violence in their own towns.
born in california to a nigerian father and a mauritian mother, oduwole is often described as ``the world's youngest filmmaker. '' aged 12, she already has four documentaries under her belt -- all of which focus on african issues. it all started three years ago when oduwole decided to enter a school documentary-making competition with a film about the ghana revolution.
l'hermione, with three sail masts and bright royal blue and gold markings, is a painstaking replica of an 18th century french frigate that fought with the united states' founding fathers in the war of independence. it set sail in france on saturday for virginia to retrace a journey through american history. after the war, lafayette returned to live in france.
with over 4,400 dead, 8,000 injured and 8 million people across nepal affected, numerous aid groups and at least 16 nations have rushed to send supplies and workers to the stricken country. ``the airport is totally congested. ``the helicopters are small.
( cnn ) there's a stampede of investigators in california. the fbi said friday that it will investigate whether civil rights were violated during the videotaped beating of a suspect in san bernardino. the suspect allegedly fled by car, foot and horseback when law enforcement officers tried to arrest him.
the divers stopped searching months ago because of the winter and water conditions, and the south korean ferry remains on the bottom of the sea floor. the sewol sank on april 16, killing 304 people, mostly high school students who were on their way to a field trip to jeju island, off south korea's southern coast. nine have yet to be found.
( cnn ) a large storm system dubbed typhoon maysak is churning over the pacific ocean, days away from a possible direct hit on the philippines. maysak is moving west-northwest after skirting the federated states of micronesia, according to the u.s. joint typhoon warning center. the philippines is frequently hit by typhoons.
( cnn ) late one night on facebook, a girl with cystic fibrosis messaged a boy with cystic fibrosis, and both their lives were changed forever. the girl, katie donovan, read that the boy, dalton prager, was very sick. cystic fibrosis patients shouldn't be near each other because they can share infections that could cripple their already fragile lungs.
( cnn ) when isis overran their villages near mosul in august 2014, a small group of assyrians, a middle eastern minority with a history reaching back more than 4,000 years, picked up weapons and formed their own militia : dwekh nawsha -- ``the sacrificers. today, most iraqi christians live in kurdish areas in the north, which have been a relative haven of stability. the fighters are a very mixed bunch.
buoyed by a higher-than-normal 30 % turnout, two african-american candidates won their wards tuesday night to make the six-member city council 50 % black. ferguson's population of about 21,000 is 70 % black, but the city council was predominantly white, as is the police force. she won 49.76 % of the vote.
( cnn ) pope francis risked turkish anger on sunday by using the word ``genocide'' to refer to the mass killings of armenians a century ago under the ottoman empire. ``in the past century, our human family has lived through three massive and unprecedented tragedies,'' the pope said at a mass at st. peter's basilica to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armenian massacres. armenian foreign minister edward nalbandian rebuked turkey.
the video is being dissected frame by frame by authorities and media outlets, all in an effort to reconstruct what exactly happened between north charleston police officer michael slager, a five-year employee of that force, and walter scott, 50. slager, 33, was charged tuesday with first-degree murder after firing eight shots at scott, killing him. slager is also now ``terminated'' from the force, north charleston mayor keith summey said wednesday.
( cnn ) noelle velentzas, 28, couldn't understand why u.s. citizens like herself were traveling overseas to wage jihad when they could simply ``make history'' at home by unleashing terrorist attacks, according to a federal criminal complaint unsealed thursday. velentzas and her former roommate, 31-year-old asia siddiqui, were arrested and accused of planning to build an explosive device for attacks in the united states, federal prosecutors said. siddiqui is also a u.s. citizen.
( cnn ) sabra dipping co. is recalling 30,000 cases of hummus due to possible contamination with listeria, the u.s. food and drug administration said wednesday. the nationwide recall is voluntary. the potential for contamination was discovered when a routine, random sample collected at a michigan store on march 30 tested positive for listeria monocytogenes.
( cnn ) thousands of palestinians are trapped in the devastated yarmouk refugee camp in syria, which has mostly been seized by groups including isis, activists report. the london-based syrian observatory for human rights says isis and the al qaeda-affiliated al-nusra front took control of 90 % of the camp in southern damascus. ``there is no electricity,'' says mohammed.
( cnn ) isis fighters seized several districts in the iraqi city of ramadi in an hours-long assault friday that included suicide and car bombs, an iraqi provincial official said. at least 10 iraqi security forces were killed in the attacks, according to faleh al-essawi, the deputy head of iraq's anbar provincial council. more than 40 iraqi soldiers died in that explosion.
as iraqi forces, aided by shiite militiamen, took control wednesday of the northern city of tikrit, they found vehicles laden with explosives and buildings that might be booby-trapped. cnn senior international correspondent arwa damon, who was in tikrit on tuesday, saw a large mechanical digger packed with explosives that iraqi forces had to disarm. plumes of smoke rose from burning buildings in the background.
since the news broke last weekend that hillary clinton had declared her candidacy, notable among the blitz of news stories are the many that refer to her as the mononymous ``hillary,'' as if she were a pop star in a pantsuit. she's not beyoncé. so is marco.
ferguson, missouri ( cnn ) at least three people were shot in separate incidents in ferguson, missouri, on late tuesday and early wednesday as hundreds of demonstrators gathered in support of protests in baltimore, a city spokesman said. two people were shot in the neck and another was shot in the leg, spokesman jeff small said. the two victims shot in the neck were hospitalized, small said.
( cnn ) the world learned his name after he was killed by a south carolina police officer. but in his life, 50-year-old walter scott was also the father of four children and served in the coast guard before being honorably discharged. justin bamberg, a lawyer for scott's family, speculated thursday it could have been related to ``child support and a fear of maybe going back to ( jail ).
( cnn ) the red cross on saturday called for an immediate 24-hour ceasefire in battle-torn yemen, saying many more people recently wounded in airstrikes and ground fighting will die if not tended to soon. the call came just before the u.n. security council met late saturday morning to discuss the situation in the arabian peninsula nation, where shiite rebels are pitted against external arab air forces and fighters loyal to yemen's displaced sunni president. the meeting adjourned with no decision announced.
the students ( aged 8 to 14 ) at the ibnu-siina school in northern kenya are getting a so-called ``western'' education, taking lessons in subjects like mathematics, science and english. it was the group's deadliest attack to date. '' and it's not just in kenya.
( cnn ) it was all set for a fairytale ending for record breaking jockey ap mccoy. in the end it was a different but familiar name who won the grand national on saturday. aspell won last year's grand national too, making him the first jockey since the 1950s to ride back-to-back winners on different horses.
washington ( cnn ) one former employee of the private blackwater worldwide security company was sentenced monday to life in prison and three others to 30 years each behind bars for their roles in a 2007 mass shooting in baghdad that left 17 people dead. prosecutors accused the men of illegally unleashed ``powerful sniper fire, machine guns and grenade launchers on innocent men, women and children. slough was convicted of 13 counts of voluntary manslaughter, 17 counts of attempted manslaughter and a firearms offense.
washington ( cnn ) a shooting that prompted the lockdown of the u.s. capitol for several hours saturday was a suicide and does not have an apparent connection to terrorism, capitol police chief kim dine said in a news conference. the unidentified shooter had a backpack and a rolling suitcase that authorities treated as treated suspicious packages, prompting the lockdown as they were investigated, capitol police said. the male carried a sign with a message about ``social justice,'' authorities said.
marietta, georgia ( cnn ) the little-known star of this week's no. 1 car chase movie, ``furious 7'' isn't a car. it's an airplane. film producers hired a lockheed c-130 hercules to fly five cars 12,000 feet high, open a cargo door at the rear of the plane and parachute them out in a spectacular free-fall stunt.
only carry-on luggage was allowed on this air india plane. the passengers were mostly indian nationals, plus yemenis and people from other countries who had been working in yemen's capital, sanaa. the stress of living in a war zone showed on the passengers' faces.
garissa, kenya ( cnn ) freshly laundered clothes still hang friday in the dormitory at garissa university college. stuffed animals remain in one room. on friday afternoon, more than 36 hours after the attack, investigators and kenya red cross crews were finishing up the task of removing the bodies of dead students.
the plus-size clothing retailer has launched an ad campaign for its cacique line titled #imnoangel, seeking to ``redefine sexy. '' and ``it's all about how you feel. '' the campaign is a not-so-subtle dig at victoria's secret and its very popular angels line, which caters to smaller women.
( cnn ) a grand jury in dallas county, texas, has decided not to indict two officers in the fatal shooting of jason harrison, a schizophrenic man whose mother had called police for help getting him to the hospital. the grand jury's decision not to indict means officers john rogers and andrew hutchins won't face criminal prosecution in the case. but the officers are still facing a wrongful death lawsuit from harrison's family.
( cnn ) they may not be ``star trek'' - type extraterrestrials, but we may be close to finding evidence of alien life, a nasa scientist says. ``we know where to look. '' nasa released a graphic noting that scientists have found evidence or indications of water on a number of celestial bodies, including the dwarf planet ceres and jupiter's moon europa.
the dreamworks film centered on the cast of a canceled space tv show who are accidentally sent to a spaceship and must save an alien nation. tv land's `younger' renewed for second season. the film's scribe robert gordon is expected to write the tv version and executive produce with the film's director dean parisot, producer mark johnson and johnson's producing partner melissa bernstein.
a drone carrying traces of a radioactive material was found on the rooftop of japan's equivalent to the white house on wednesday, police and government officials said. the discovery came on the same day a japanese court approved a government plan to restart two reactors at the sendai nuclear power plant in kagoshima prefecture, more than four years after the fukushima daiichi nuclear disaster. investigators suspect the cesium was placed in the bottle.
new york ( cnn ) new york's iconic statue of liberty and liberty island will reopen to the public saturday -- one day after a bomb threat that led to its evacuation was declared unfounded, officials said. the nypd bomb squad on friday examined a locker thought to contain a suspicious package and found it was empty, a law enforcement official said. all civilians were evacuated and only emergency personnel remained on liberty island, according to police.
and unemployment may still be at 5.5 %, but there is wide concern among labor experts and economists that too much job growth is in part-time low-income work. low-wage workers have been the hardest hit since the onset of the financial crisis, and low-wage jobs remain a fixture of the new economy. nearly 60 % of the people in america's workforce are paid hourly and work part-time.
dongguan, china ( cnn ) for a decade, the new south china mall -- the biggest shopping mall in the world -- has been an embarrassment for its owners and china. opened to the public in 2005 in dongguan in the south of the country, the goal was to attract 100,000 visitors a day with an array of entertainment, shops and eateries. it even boasted an indoor roller coaster.
new york ( cnn ) a new york police department detective apologized friday for an angry exchange with an uber driver that was caught on video and landed him on modified assignment. ``i apologize. '' the altercation began monday when the uber driver gestured to a detective in an unmarked car to use his blinker after he was allegedly attempting to park without using it, according to sanjay seth, a passenger in the car who uploaded the video to youtube.
'' mcguire, 25, said. she and rogers, 34, own the breckenridge cannabis club, a recreational marijuana dispensary in the historic and scenic ski town of breckenridge, colorado. ``somebody is going to become a mogul,'' rogers said.
easley, south carolina ( cnn ) the cracker or the bite of ice cream -- brynn duncan still isn't sure which one sent her into anaphylactic shock that day. '' on that particular day in march, multiple epipens didn't slow the reaction. less than a week after her trip to the hospital, brynn, 21, is back at home in easley, south carolina.
sao paulo, brazil ( cnn ) hundreds of thousands of brazilians are taking to the streets in protests across the country, lashing out against president dilma rousseff as she struggles with an economic downturn and a massive bribery scandal. the demonstrators have called for the president to be impeached. on the other side rousseff's base is holding rallies in her support.
nairobi, kenya ( cnn ) they were sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, friends and fellow citizens. organizers unloaded 147 crosses from a truck and quietly planted them in the ground. the attack at a university in garissa on thursday killed 147 people, mostly students.
( cnn ) indonesia has a tough stance on drug smugglers, and since assuming office in october, president joko widodo has made it clear he intends to show no mercy toward those found guilty of such crimes. april marks a decade on death row for andrew chan and myuran sukumaran for their part in a failed heroin smuggling plot. the 31-year-old chan has been called the ringleader and 33-year-old sukumaran has been described as his collaborator.
( cnn ) the abduction of more than 200 schoolgirls a year ago this week captured global attention and inspired the hashtag #bringbackourgirls, but the horrors for nigeria's children are widespread. ``around 800,000 children have been forced to flee their homes as a result of the conflict in northeast nigeria between boko haram, military forces and civilian self-defense groups,'' unicef said monday. '' it also launched a social media campaign using the hashtag #bringbackourchildhood.
but it is how washington wants this to be. we are near jalalabad, at a regional logistics hub for the afghan police force -- a generous facility that was originally intended to resupply the entire east of the country with uniforms, ammunition, even fuel for vehicles. nick paton walsh's afghanistan series : afghan forced to marry her rapist.
their technology creates tactile three-dimensional shapes literally out of thin air, using ultrasound. the company's tagline says it all : ``feeling without touching. '' through an emission of sound waves, sensations are projected through the air and to the user.
leave it to google to make april fools' day into throwback fun by combining google maps with pac-man. the massive tech company is known for its impish april fools' day pranks, and google maps has been at the center of a few, including a pokemon challenge and a treasure map. this year the company was a day early to the party, rolling out the pac-man game tuesday.
( cnn ) aaron hernandez is known for his swagger. some court security officers who escort him are as tall and muscular as he is. it hasn't been there as often in the last couple of weeks when state witnesses have included his fiancée shayanna jenkins and his former boss, new england patriots owner robert kraft, who testified hernandez would usually greet him with a kiss and a hug.
but this catholic hadn't read it -- at least, not from cover to cover. so, in the middle of holy week, i decided to finally take the plunge. at work this week, i was talking with some colleagues about pope francis' upcoming trip to the united states.
( cnn ) mao zedong's ``little red book,'' a selection of the chairman's quotations, was required reading during china's cultural revolution in the 1960s and 70s. china has now updated the practice for the digital age -- launching a smartphone app starring its current leader, president xi jinping, and featuring his latest speeches, statements and publications. the personality cult campaign will only grow.
( the hollywood reporter ) stan freberg, whose freewheeling comic career in advertising garnered him worldwide acclaim and whose satirical entertainments abounded on tv, the radio and on records, has died. he was 88. freberg died of natural causes at a santa monica hospital, his son and daughter, donavan and donna freberg, confirmed to the hollywood reporter.
cheroitich's survival story, which she recounted to cnn on saturday, is a rare bright spot in what has been a horrific week in garissa, a town about 90 miles from the somali border, and throughout kenya. saturday, the terrorist group warned that more carnage is coming as it promised ``another bloodbath'' in kenya. '' kenyatta declared three days of national mourning for the victims of the attack.
washington ( cnn ) rick santorum says he'd hoped indiana gov. mike pence would veto the ``fix'' to his state's religious freedom law rather than limiting its scope. ``tolerance is a two-way street,'' santorum said. '' santorum said.
( cnn ) singer-songwriter joni mitchell has been hospitalized in southern california. ``joni was found unconscious in her home ( tuesday ) afternoon. ``she is currently in intensive care undergoing tests and is awake and in good spirits.
that's why an experienced climbing group from the indian army plans to trek up the 8,850-meter mountain to pick up at least 4,000 kilograms ( more than 8,000 pounds ) of waste from the high-altitude camps, according to india today. the mountain is part of the himalaya mountain range on the border between nepal and the tibet region. the 34-member team plans to depart for kathmandu on saturday and start the ascent in mid-may.
( cnn ) slamming world powers' framework nuclear deal with iran, israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu on friday demanded that any final deal include a ``clear and unambiguous iranian recognition of israel's right to exist. '' iranian president : we will stick to our promises on nuclear deal. but netanyahu said he isn't convinced israel is safe from iran.
( cnn ) two passengers found dead on a cruise ship in puerto rico appear to have died in a murder-suicide, the cruise line said. holland america line said two guests were found dead inside their stateroom on the ms ryndam at 11:30 a.m. thursday. it's currently in san juan, puerto rico.
( cnn ) iran's president on friday hailed the proposed international deal on his country's nuclear program, vowing that iran will stick to its promises and -- assuming other countries live up to their end of the bargain -- become a more active, engaged player in world affairs. there is a third path. '' what iranians think of the deal.
( cnn ) tornadoes, fierce winds and severe thunderstorms with large hail are predicted for the midwest and for the plains, from the ozarks eastward to the lower ohio valley, on thursday and friday, the national weather service said. by thursday afternoon, storms will hit parts of indiana and kentucky. the hail dinged her car.
back in july, sierra sharry and lane smith were just about to become parents. sharry was eight months pregnant. ``july 13th 2014 was the absolute worst day of my life,'' sharry posted on facebook.
recruit and train up thousands of new security officers. but the blood of 147 people slaughtered and 79 more injured, when al-shabaab opened fire at a college campus in garissa on thursday, has them debating them with renewed vigor. but the number of people killed in the attack is plaguing kenyans with self-doubt.
' the man on the phone was offering us young children with the casualness of a market trader. we were told he was one of the men running this ``unofficial'' displaced camp -- one of the many that has mushroomed in the town of yola as the influx of people fleeing boko haram has grown beyond the capacity of the official camps. the global slavery index says nigeria has the highest number of people in modern slavery of any sub-saharan country.
( cnn ) every week in the heart of nima, a slum in the ghanaian capital of accra, families congregate at a local mosque. agyare's first visit to see the girls -- students at education project achievers ghana -- was in january 2014. '' this, in part, was why agyare lent her support to achievers ghana.
you applaud the growing chorus of companies blasting the law as an invitation for businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians, using religion as a cover. or, like indiana gov. mike pence, you are surprised at the backlash and maintain that it is basically a copy of a law that is already in the books at the federal level and 19 other states. as the author of the 1993 federal religious freedom restoration act ( rfra ), sen. chuck schumer is one who can offer clarity over the controversy surrounding indiana's version of the law.
( cnn ) a florida judge denied a motion by two women to join a lawsuit against prince andrew and a prominent u.s. lawyer that alleged underage sex crimes. lawyer alan dershowitz was accused of having sex with minors with help from billionaire jeffrey epstein. buckingham palace denied the allegations, which surfaced in a court filing in january.
( cnn ) at least 54 people have died and 15 others are missing after a russian fishing vessel sank off the kamchatka peninsula, according to russia's state-run tass news agency. more than 60 people were rescued thursday from the chilly waters in russia's far east. the dalniy vostok freezer trawler -- a commercial fishing vessel -- was carrying 132 people, the ministry said.
the deadline to agree on what will be the parameters for an endgame pact on iran's nuclear program has come and gone with no deal. they are mutually exclusive,'' the iranian minister said. '' for iran, which insists its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, a deal would mean relief from punishing economic sanctions.
washington ( cnn ) the flight voice recorder aboard germanwings flight 9525 reportedly captured blaring cockpit alarms, warning co-pilot andreas lubitz to ``pull up'' and that ``terrain'' was ahead. the technology would work in a fashion similar to crash avoidance technology already used in automobiles. the idea is not new.
( cnn ) indiana's controversial religious freedom law has been in hot water lately. after a firestorm of backlash and protests, gov. mike pence said on tuesday that the state will ``fix'' the religious freedom restoration act, or rfra, so it will not discriminate against gays and lesbians. pence is making the right call.
